 

Active Ingredient: Aripiprazole 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Extended-release injectable suspension; intramuscular 

 

Recommended Studies: One study 

 

 

1. Type of study: In vivo steady-state fasting 


Design: Multiple-dose, randomized, crossover, in vivo 

Strength: 400 mg 

Subjects: Patients who are already receiving a stable regimen of aripiprazole extended-
release injection via the intramuscular route. Patients who are already receiving 400 mg 
of aripiprazole extended-release injection every four weeks would be eligible to 
participate in the study by continuing their established maintenance dose. 

Additional comments: FDA recommends that studies not be conducted using healthy 
subjects or patients on a different antipsychotic treatment. Aripiprazole is a potent 
antipsychotic drug and its administration could be associated with some serious adverse 
events. Due to the nature of these adverse events, FDA recommends that bioequivalence 
of generic versions of potent antipsychotic drugs be assessed in patients already receiving 
the products on established regimens. 

 

 

As per 21 CFR § 314.94, the proposed parenteral drug product should be qualitatively 
(Q1) and quantitatively (Q2) the same to the reference product for both strengths (300 
mg/vial and 400 mg/vial). 

 

 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Aripiprazole in plasma 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Aripiprazole 

 

In the evaluation of bioequivalence of the multiple dose study, the following pharmacokinetic 
data should be submitted for aripiprazole: 

 

• Individual and mean plasma drug concentration levels in a dosing interval after steady 
state is reached 
• Individual and mean trough levels (Cmin ss) 
• Individual and mean peak levels (Cmax ss) 



• Calculation of individual and mean steady-state AUCinterdose (AUCinterdose is AUC during a 
dosing interval at steady state) 
• Individual and mean percent fluctuation [=100 * (Cmax ss – Cmin ss)/Caverage ss] 
• Individual and median time to peak concentration 


 

The log-transformed AUC and Cmax data should be analyzed statistically using analysis of 
variance. The 90% confidence interval for the ratio of the geometric means of the 
pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC and Cmax) should be within 80-125%. Fluctuation for the test 
product should be evaluated for comparability with the fluctuation of the reference product. 

 

In period 2 (when patients are switched from reference to test or vice versa), individual and mean 
blood drug concentration levels should also be reported during the first three dosing intervals. 
Intensive sampling should be performed during this period to accurately capture changes in 
trough and peak levels. This information will be used as supporting data for bioequivalence to 
confirm that any differences in Tlag does not result in significant transient differences in Cmin. 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: 

300 mg based on (i) acceptable bioequivalence studies on the 400 mg strength, (ii) proportionally 
similar across all strengths, and (iii) acceptable in vitro dissolution testing of all strengths. 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: The dissolution information for this drug product 
can be found on the FDA-Recommended Dissolution Methods website available to the public at 
the following location: http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Conduct 
comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference 
products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the abbreviated new drug application 
(ANDA). 

 


