 

Active ingredient: Asenapine Maleate 

 

Form/Route: Tablet/Sublingual 

 

Recommended studies: 1 study 

 

1. Type of study: Steady-state 

Design: Multiple-dose, two-way, crossover in vivo 

Strength: EQ 10 mg base 

Subjects: Male and non-pregnant female patients who are receiving a stable twice daily dose of 
asenapine maleate EQ 10 mg base. FDA recommends that studies not be conducted using healthy 
subjects. 

 

Additional comments: 1) According to the randomization schedule, an equal number of patients 
would receive either the generic formulation (Treatment A) or the reference formulation (Treatment 
B) in the same dose as administered prior to the study, i.e., a twice daily dose of asenapine maleate 
EQ 10 mg base, for 7 days, 2) Patients would then be switched to the other product for a second 
period of 7 days. There should be no washout period between the two treatment periods, 3) After the 
study is completed, patients could be continued on twice daily dose of asenapine maleate EQ 10 mg 
base using an approved asenapine maleate product as prescribed by their clinicians, 4) Tablets should 
not be crushed, chewed, or swallowed, 5) Subjects should not eat or drink for 10 minutes after drug 
administration, 6) Applicants may consider using a reference-scaled average bioequivalence approach 
for this drug product. If using this approach, please provide evidence of high variability in the 
bioequivalence parameters, AUC and/or Cmax (i.e., within-subject variability = 30%) for the 
reference product. For general information on this approach, please refer to the Progesterone Capsule 
Draft Guidance for additional information regarding reference-scaled average bioequivalence 
approach. 7) Steady-state asenapine concentrations should be confirmed by obtaining at least three 
consecutive measurements of plasma asenapine concentrations prior to dosing. 

________________________________________________________________________ 

 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Asenapine in plasma 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Asenapine 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: EQ 5 mg base, based on (i) acceptable bioequivalence studies on the 
EQ 10 mg base strength, (ii) acceptable in vitro disintegration and dissolution testing of all strengths, and 
(iii) proportional similarity of the formulations across all strengths. Please refer to the Mirtazapine Tablet 
Draft Guidance for additional information regarding waivers of in vivo testing 

 

Disintegration and Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

Please conduct the disintegration test as per the USP. Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database 
is available to the public at the OGD website at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. 


Please find the dissolution information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative 
disintegration and dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference 
products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the application. 

 

Additional comments regarding the bioequivalence study: 

 

Before the study begins, the proposed protocol must be approved by an institutional review board 
(IRB).1 

 

The FDA recommends that applicants enroll a sufficient number of patients to ensure adequate 
statistical power. 

 

Blood samples should be collected over a dosing interval on day 7, following preliminary sampling 
on days 5 and 6 to confirm steady-state conditions. The last dose of asenapine maleate sublingual 
tablet, EQ 10 mg base to be taken before blood sampling for each period should be administered at 
the clinical site to assure exact timing of sampling. 

 

1. Patient Entry Criteria and Facilities 

To enter into this study, patients should be appropriate candidates for asenapine maleate sublingual 
tablet, EQ 10 mg base twice daily therapy (as stated in product labeling, e.g. exclude subjects with 
severe hepatic impairment, history of allergic or adverse responses to asenapine maleate or any 
comparable or similar product, history of drug induced leukopenia/neutropenia, history of congenital 
prolongation of the QT interval, history of cardiac arrhythmias, recent history of myocardial 
infarction or unstable heart disease) and have been taking a stable dose of asenapine maleate 
sublingual tablet, EQ 10 mg base twice daily therapy for at least three months. Patients should be 
otherwise healthy as determined by physical examination, medical history, and routine hematologic 
and biochemical tests (e.g., exclude subjects with screening low white blood cell count, neutropenia, 
hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, prolonged QT interval or bradycardia). 

 

Outpatients should be hospitalized for at least 2 days during the collection of each set of 
pharmacokinetic samples. The clinical and analytical laboratories used for the study should be 
identified in the study report, along with the names, titles, and curriculum vitae of the medical and 
scientific/analytical directors. 

 

2. Safety Monitoring 

White blood cell (WBC) counts should be monitored and asenapine maleate sublingual tablet 
treatment modified, if necessary, in accordance with the leukopenia, neutropenia and agranulocytosis 
warning in the labeling of the reference listed drug product. Patients requiring modification of 
asenapine maleate sublingual tablet treatment should be dropped from the study and provided with 
prompt medical care. Blood pressure, heart rate, and body temperature should be monitored during 
the study and immediate medical care provided for any significant abnormalities. 

 

3. Restrictions 

Patients should fast for at least 8 hours prior to and 4 hours after the administration of the morning 
dose of the test or reference treatment on day 7 of each period (i.e., the days on which blood samples 
are to be collected to assess the concentration-time curve). All meals on day 7 should be standardized 
during the study. Water may be allowed, except for 1 hour before and 1 hour after drug 
administration, when no liquid should be permitted. 

 

1 See 21 CFR 314.94(a)(7)(iii) 


Patients with any of the following should be excluded from the study: 

• A history of allergic or adverse reactions to asenapine maleate or any comparable or similar 
product 




 

• A history of severe hepatic impairment, drug induced leukopenia/neutropenia, congenital 
prolongation of the QT interval, cardiac arrhythmias, myocardial infarction or unstable heart 
disease 




 

• Concurrent primary psychiatric or neurological diagnosis, including organic mental disorder, 
severe tardive dyskinesia, or idiopathic Parkinson’s disease 




 

• A total white blood cell count below 4000/mL, or an absolute neutrophil count below 
2000/mL 




 

• A history of granulocytopenia or myeloproliferative disorders (drug-induced or idiopathic) 




 

• Significant orthostatic hypotension (i.e., a drop in systolic blood pressure of 30 mm Hg or 
more and/or a drop in diastolic blood pressure of 20 mm Hg or more on standing) 




 

• Concurrent use of antihypertensive medication or any medication that might predispose to 
orthostatic hypotension 




 

• A medical or surgical condition that might interfere with the absorption, metabolism, or 
excretion of asenapine maleate 




 

• A history of epilepsy or risk for seizures 




 

• Concurrent use of other drugs known to suppress bone marrow function 




 

• Expected changes in concomitant medications during the period of study 




 

• Positive tests for drug or alcohol abuse at screening or baseline 




 

• A history of alcohol or drug dependence by Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental 
Disorders IV (DSM-IV) criteria during the 6-month period immediately prior to study entry 




 

• Compliance with outpatient medication schedule not expected 




 

• History of multiple syncopal episodes 




 

4. Blood Sampling 

Venous blood samples should be collected after the day 7 morning dose to assess the concentration-
time curve at predose (0 hours) and at 0.25, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 8.0, 10.0, 12.0 
hours. The predose blood sampling should include at least three successive trough level samples 
(Cmin). These samples should be collected on the last 3 days of dosing in each period to ensure that 
steady-state blood plasma/serum levels are achieved in each study period. 

 

Other Recommendations 

1. Precautions and Safety Issues 


2 See 21 CFR 50.25 

• Patients should be confined for at least 12 hours after the first dose of the test and reference 
products. 




 

• Patients should remain in the supine position for the first 6 hours after the first dose, even if they 
were previously on a stable dose of asenapine maleate. 




 

• Patients should be adequately hydrated. This may be achieved by administering 240 mL of water 
before the overnight fast, 240 mL of water one hour before dosing, and beginning no sooner than 
1 hour after drug administration, 240 mL of water every 2 hours for 6 hours post-dosing. Subjects 
should not eat or drink for 10 minutes after drug administration. 




 

• Patients must be adequately informed of possible cardiovascular adverse effects in the consent 
form.2 




 

2. Statistical Analysis of Pharmacokinetic Data (Blood Plasma/Serum) 

The following pharmacokinetic data should be used for the evaluation of bioequivalence of the multiple-
dose study: 

 

• Individual and mean blood drug concentration levels 




 

• Individual and mean trough levels (Cmin ss) 




 

• Individual and mean peak levels (Cmax ss) 




 

• Calculation of individual and mean steady-state AUCinterdose (AUCinterdose is AUC during a 
dosing interval at steady-state) 




 

• Individual and mean percent fluctuation [ =100 * (Cmax ss – Cmin ss)/Caverage ss] 




 

• Individual and mean time to peak concentration 




 

• The log-transformed AUC and Cmax data should be analyzed statistically using analysis of 
variance. The 90% confidence interval for the ratio of the geometric means of the 
pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC and Cmax) should be within 80-125%. Fluctuation for the test 
product should be evaluated for comparability with the fluctuation of the reference product. The 
trough concentration data should also be analyzed statistically to verify that steady-state was 
achieved prior to Period 1 and Period 2 pharmacokinetic sampling. 




 

3. Clinical Report and Adverse Reactions 

 

• Patient medical histories, physical examination and laboratory reports, and all incidents of 
possible adverse reactions should be reported. 





