Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Atorvastatin Calcium 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies 
the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative 
approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Atorvastatin Calcium 
Form/Route: Tablets/Oral 
Recommended studies: 2 studies 
1. Type of study: Fasting 

Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: EQ 80 mg Base 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population 
Additional Comments: Applicants may consider using a reference-scaled average bioequivalence 
approach for this drug product. If using this approach, please provide evidence of high variability 
in the bioequivalence parameters of AUC and/or Cmax (i.e., within-subject variability > 30%). 
For general information on this approach, please refer to the Individual Product Bioequivalence 
Recommendations Guidance on Progesterone Capsules. 

2. Type of study: Fed 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: EQ 80 mg Base 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population. 
Additional Comments: Please see additional comments above. 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Atorvastatin and its active metabolites, ortho 
and para- hydroxylated atorvastatin in plasma 

Please submit the metabolite data as supportive evidence of comparable therapeutic outcome. For the 
metabolite, the following data should be submitted: individual and mean concentrations, individual and 
mean pharmacokinetic parameters, and geometric means and ratios of means for AUC and Cmax. 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Atorvastatin 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: EQ 10 mg, 20 mg and 40 mg Base based on (i) acceptable 
bioequivalence studies on the EQ 80 mg Base strength, (ii) acceptable in-vitro dissolution testing of all 
strengths, and (iii) proportional similarity of the formulations across all strengths. 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website at 
http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the dissolution information for this 
product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all 
strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the 
application. 

Recommended May 2008; Revised Oct 2010 


