 

Active ingredient: Axitinib 

 

Form/Route: Tablet/Oral 

 

Recommended studies: 2 studies 

 

1. Type of study: Fasting 


Design: Single dose, two way crossover, in vivo 

Strength: 5 mg 

Subjects: Healthy males and non-pregnant females, general population. 

Additional Comments: Adhere to the following additional comments regarding the study 
population, exclusion criteria, safety monitoring, stopping rules and informed consent: 

 

i. Recommended study population: healthy subjects = 18 years of age with no 
clinically relevant abnormalities identified by a detailed medical history, full 
physical examination, including blood pressure (BP) and pulse rate (PR) 
measurement, 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) and clinical laboratory tests. 
ii. We recommend the following exclusion criteria: 
a. Age < 18 years 
b. Pregnant or breastfeeding women 
c. Women of childbearing potential 
d. Individuals with hepatic, thyroid, or renal dysfunction 
e. Current use or anticipated need for drugs with known or suspected 
interactions with axitinib 
f. Subjects with hypertension or cardiovascular risk factors 
g. Subjects with a history of gastrointestinal bleeding 



iii. We recommend the following safety monitoring (prior to dosing and after each 
dosing period) during the BE trial: pregnancy test for women, liver function tests, 
thyroid function tests, electrocardiogram, urinalysis, and blood pressure. In 
addition, males and their female partners need to practice adequate contraception 
for at least two weeks after the last dose of axitinib. 
iv. We recommend the following stopping rules: occurrence of two or more adverse 
events of > Grade 2 (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
(CTCAE) or WHO Toxicity Criteria), any occurrence of > CTCAE Grade 3 



adverse events, or any occurrence of a serious adverse event (SAE) possibly 
related to the study drug. 
v. FDA recommends that the Informed Consent should state that axitinib caused 
birth defects in animals and that the potential for axitinib to cause malignancies is 
unknown. Based on input from the FDA/Office of Hematology and Oncology 
Products (OHOP), FDA/Division of Clinical Review (DCR) also recommends 
including specific information on carcinogenicity and teratogenicity into the 
informed consent document. 


 

 

2. Type of study: Fed 


Design: Single dose, two way crossover, in vivo 

Strength: 5 mg 

Subjects: Healthy males and non-pregnant females, general population. 

Additional Comments: Same as the fasting study. 

 

 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Axitinib in plasma 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Axitinib 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: 1 mg tablet, based on (i) acceptable bioequivalence studies 
on the 5 mg strength, (ii) acceptable in vitro dissolution testing of all strengths, and (iii) 
proportional similarity of the formulations across all strengths. 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

 

Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website 
at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the dissolution 
information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 
dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be 
determined upon review of the application. 

 


