Active Ingredient: Azacitidine 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Powder; IV (Infusion), Subcutaneous 

 

Strength: 100 mg/Vial 

 

The proposed drug product should be qualitatively (Q1) and quantitatively (Q2) the same as the 
corresponding reference listed drug. Bioequivalence may be established based on comparative in 
vitro testing. 

 


The three criteria to provide in vitro evidence that the test product, when reconstituted as a 
suspension for subcutaneous administration, demonstrates bioequivalence are: 

 

1. Physico-chemical Characteristics. Evidence of equivalence that test and RLD products 
have the same final physico-chemical characteristics, such as viscosity, osmolality, and pH. 
2. Particle Morphology. It is recommended that a suitable method for qualitative 
determination be used to allow observation of particles in the size range in which azacitidine 
particles are expected to fall. Representative micrographs should also be submitted. These 
data are supportive, and formal statistical testing is not applicable. 
3. Particle Diameter. In addition, a suitable method should be used to determine particle 
diameter. The D10, D50, D90 and span (i.e., (D90–D10)/D50) measurements can be 
analyzed by using the population bioequivalence (PBE) statistical approach. Refer to the 
product-specific recommendation for budesonide inhalation suspension for additional 
information regarding PBE analysis procedures 


(http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/UCM319977.pdf) 

 

The in vitro testing should be performed on ten samples from one lot of the test product and one 
lot of the reference listed drug. 

 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: Not applicable 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: The dissolution information for this drug 
product can be found on the FDA-Recommended Dissolution Methods web site, available to the 
public at the following location: http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. 
Conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and 
reference products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the abbreviated new drug 
application (ANDA). 


