Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Azathioprine 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies 
the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative 
approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Azathioprine 
Form/Route: Tablet /Oral 
Recommended studies: 1 study 

Type of study: Fasting 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: 50 mg 
Subjects: Patients who are on a regimen of oral azathioprine tablets. 
Additional Comments: Specific recommendations are provided below. 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Azathioprine and its active metabolite, 
6-mercaptopurine in plasma 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Azathioprine 

Please submit the metabolite data as supportive evidence of comparable therapeutic outcome. 
For the metabolite, the following data should be submitted: individual and mean concentrations, 
individual and mean pharmacokinetic parameters, and geometric means and ratios of means for 
AUC and Cmax. 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: 25mg, 75 mg and 100 mg based on (i) acceptable 
bioequivalence studies on the 50 mg strength, (ii) proportional similarity of the formulations 
across all strengths, and (iii) acceptable in vitro dissolution testing of all strengths. 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website 
at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/index.cfm. Please find the dissolution 
information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 
dosage units of the test and reference products. Specifications will be determined upon review of 
the application. 

Additional comments regarding the PK bioequivalence study 

1. Submission of an Investigational New Drug Application (IND) is required prior to the 
conduct of a bioequivalence study for a cytotoxic drug product such as Azathioprine (See 
21 C.F.R § 320.31). 


Recommended Sep 2010 


2. These studies should be conducted in patients who are already receiving azathioprine at a 
fixed dose of 50 mg/day or 100 mg/day. If you choose to enroll patients who are on a 
regimen of 100 mg/day, then each patient should receive two tablets of 50 mg strength. 
3. The bioequivalence study should be conducted on 2 consecutive days of a standard 
treatment cycle, with each of these days representing a study period. No additional 
washout is necessary. 
4. The study should be designed around each patient’s existing azathioprine regimen. 
5. No changes in dose or regimen should be made for the purpose of the bioequivalence 
study. 
6. In a crossover study, the dose that each patient receives should be the same between the 
two study periods. If a change in dose is needed, that patient should be dropped from the 
study. 
7. Any concomitant medications taken by each patient should be the same for the two study 
periods. If a change in concomitant medications is necessary, that patient should be 
dropped from the study. 
8. Females should not be pregnant or lactating, and if applicable, should practice abstention 
or contraception during the study. 
9. Patients with inherited deficiency of methyltransferase activity must be excluded from 
these studies. 
10. The protocol may exclude concomitant chemotherapy and should exclude prior exposure 
to doxorubicin. 
11. The informed consent should include a description of the known genotoxicity of 6mercaptopurine 
in human cells and animal models. 


Recommended Sep 2010 


