 

Active Ingredient: Azelastine hydrochloride and Fluticasone propionate 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Spray, metered; nasal 

 

Recommended Studies: In vitro and in vivo studies 

 

FDA recommends the following in vitro and in vivo studies to establish bioequivalence (BE) of 
the test (T) to the reference (R) nasal sprays containing azelastine hydrochloride and fluticasone 
propionate. 

 

 

In Vitro Studies 

 

In vitro BE studies should be performed on samples from each of three or more batches of the T 
product and three or more batches of the R product, with no fewer than 10 units from each batch. 
Whenever possible, T product samples should be from the primary stability batches used to 
establish the expiration date period. When three batches are studied, we recommend the T 
product be manufactured, preferably from three different batches of the drug substance, different 
batches of critical excipients, and different batches of the same device (pump and actuator) 
components. The BE batches to be studied should be at least one-third of the to-be-marketed 
production batch size. The manufacturing process of these batches should simulate that of large-
scale production batches for marketing. 

 

For comparative in vitro studies, T and R should be studied under the same instrumental 
conditions. Actuation should be conducted in a manner that removes potential operator bias, 
either by employing automatic actuation or by employing blinded procedures when manual 
actuation is used, where feasible. The analyst performing the post-actuation evaluations of the 
collected data should be blinded to the identity of the samples. Method validation should be 
performed using R product, and the lot number(s) for the R bottles used for the validation should 
be provided. 

 

FDA recommends the following in vitro studies to establish in vitro BE of the test and reference 
nasal sprays containing azelastine hydrochloride and fluticasone propionate. 

 


1. Type of study: Single Actuation Content (SAC) 

Design: The SAC test should be performed at the beginning (B) and end (E) lifestages of 
the product.1 An appropriate apparatus may be used to determine the SAC using a 
validated assay. The number of actuations per determination should be one. 

1 Based on the labeled number of actuations, the terms B lifestage, M lifestage, and E lifestage represent the first 
actuation(s) following the labeled number of priming actuations, the actuation(s) corresponding to 50 percent of the 
labeled number of actuations, and the actuation(s) corresponding to the labeled number of actuations, respectively. 

 

Equivalence based on: The SAC comparison of the T and R products is based on the 
population bioequivalence (PBE). Refer to the product-specific recommendation for 
budesonide inhalation suspension for additional information regarding PBE analysis 
procedures 

(http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/UCM319977.pdf) 

 

2. Type of study: Droplet Size Distribution by Laser Diffraction 

Design: Droplet size distribution should be determined using laser diffraction or an 
appropriately validated alternate methodology. Droplet size distribution should be 
measured for fully developed phase only at B and E lifestages. It is recommended that 
the studies be performed within a range of 2 to 7 cm from the actuator orifice, with the 
two distances separated by 3 cm or more. 

Additional comments: Single spray droplet size distribution and span should be reported 
based on volume (mass). Mean D10, D50, D90 values for a given unit should be computed 
from the mean of up to three consecutive sprays from that unit at each lifestage. Span 
can be computed as ((D90 - D10)/D50). To assess precision, the data of each spray should 
also be reported. 

 

Equivalence based on: PBE analysis of D50 and span at two selected distances. 

 

3. Type of study: Drug in Small Particles/Droplets 

Design: Determination of drug in small particles/droplets is recommended to be 
performed at the B lifestage of the product using the U.S. Pharmacopeia (USP) <601> 
Apparatus 1 (flow rate of 28.3 L/min), Apparatus 6 (flow rate of 15 L/min), or another 
appropriate method using a validated, highly sensitive assay. Drug in small 
particles/droplets should be determined using fewest numbers of actuations (generally not 
exceeding 10 actuations) justified by the sensitivity of the assay, to be more reflective of 
individual doses. 

Additional comments: Drug deposition should be reported in mass units. Mass balance 
should be based on drug deposition on each of valve stem, actuator, adapters, induction 
port, any other accessories, the top stage, and all lower stages to the filter. Mass balance 
accountability should be reported based on the sum of all deposition sites. The total mass 
of drug collected on all stages and accessories is recommended to be between 85 and 
115% of the amount labeled on a per actuation basis. 

 

Equivalence based on: PBE modified to be one-sided for mean comparison of drug 
mass in the small particles/droplets less than 9.0 µm. Refer to the product-specific 


recommendation for fluticasone propionate nasal spray metered for the step-wise 
procedure for PBE modified to be one-sided for mean comparison analysis. 

 

4. Type of study: Spray Pattern 

Design: The spray pattern test should be performed at the B lifestage of the product and 
at two different distances from the actuator orifice. The selected distances should be at 
least 3 cm apart and based on the range of 3 to 7 cm from the R actuator tip. Impaction 
(thin-layer chromatography plate impaction), non-impaction (laser light sheet and high-
speed digital camera), or other suitable method may be used to determine the spray 
pattern. 

Additional comments: Spray pattern should be measured quantitatively in terms of 
ovality ratio and area within the perimeter (to include a high proportion, e.g., 95% of the 
total pattern) of the true shape for the automated analysis, or ovality ratio, and Dmax for 
the manual analysis. Ovality ratio is defined as the ratio of Dmax to Dmin. Dmax and Dmin 
are the longest and shortest diameters, respectively, that pass through the center of mass 
or the center of gravity, as appropriate. The number of sprays per spray pattern should 
preferably be one. 

 

Equivalence based on: At two selected distances, (i) qualitative comparison of spray 
shape, and (ii) PBE analysis of ovality ratio and area for automated analysis, or ovality 
ratio and Dmax for manual analysis. 

 

5. Type of study: Plume Geometry 

Design: The plume geometry test should be performed at B lifestage of the product. The 
time sequence sound-triggered flash photography method, laser light sheet technology, 
and high speed digital camera, or other suitable method may be used to determine the 
plume geometry at the appropriate post-actuation delay time. 

Additional comments: Plume geometry measurements should be reported at a single 
delay time while the fully developed plume is still in contact with the actuator tip. Plume 
geometry should be measured quantitatively in terms of plume angle and width of one 
side view. The plume angle is based on the conical region of the plume extending from a 
vertex that occurs at or near the actuator tip. The plume width is measured at a distance 
equal to the greater of the two distances selected for characterization of the spray pattern. 

 

Equivalence based on: Ratio of the geometric mean of the three batches of T to that of 
the three batches of R (based on log-transformed data) for both plume angle and width, 
which should fall within 90-111% of plume angle and plume width. 

 

6. Type of study: Priming and Repriming 

Design: Priming and repriming tests should be based on the emitted dose (ex-actuator) of 
a single actuation immediately following the specified number of priming or repriming 
actuations specified in the R product labeling. The repriming test should be performed 
following storage for the specified period of non-use after initial use and/or other 
conditions (e.g., dropping), if the R product labeling provides such repriming 
information. 


Additional comments: For BE evaluation, the priming and repriming tests should be 
based on products stored in the valve-upright position, with the exception of a nasal spray 
for which the R labeling recommends storage in the valve-down position. The priming 
data can be based on the SAC data at the B lifestage. Repriming would be similarly 
established based on a single actuation following the specified number of repriming 
actuations in the R product labeling. 

 

Equivalence based on: PBE analysis of the emitted dose of a single actuation 
immediately following the specified number of priming or repriming actuations specified 
in the R product labeling. 

 

In vitro BE data submission recommendations 

 

• For data summary tables and SAS data tables for the in vitro data recommended for nasal 
spray products, the templates in the following links should be used, to ensure completeness 
and consistency of the data: 


 

http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/DevelopmentApprovalProcess/HowDrugsareDevelopedandApproved/ApprovalApplications/AbbreviatedNewDrugApplicationANDAGenerics/UCM209446.pdf 

 

http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/DevelopmentApprovalProcess/HowDrugsareDevelopedandApproved/ApprovalApplications/AbbreviatedNewDrugApplicationANDAGenerics/UCM271017.pdf 

 

• In addition to submission of all raw data, the following supporting documentation for Droplet 
Size Distribution by Laser Diffraction, Spray Pattern, and Plume Geometry should be 
provided: 


 

o Documentation includes instrument output reports and photographic or graphic material, 
as applicable. Documents should be clearly labeled to indicate the product (e.g., T or R), 
batch number, and testing conditions (e.g., distance, lifestage, delay time), as appropriate. 




 

o For Droplet Size Distribution by Laser Diffraction, profiles of droplet size and 
obscuration or percent transmission over the complete life of the single sprays should be 
submitted. 




 

o Supporting documentation for Droplet Size Distribution by Laser Diffraction, Spray 
Pattern, and Plume Geometry should include representative copies, preferably electronic, 
of > 20% of the total observations. 




 

o For Spray Pattern and Plume Geometry quantitated by automatic image analysis, 
representative electronic images rather than paper copies of > 20% of the total 
observations should be submitted, as electronic files are definitive. For automated image 
analysis of Spray Pattern and Plume Geometry, in addition to the electronic images, it is 





recommended that paper copies of a few screen images be submitted as reference 
samples. 




 

 

Pharmacokinetic (PK) BE Study 

 

Type of study: Fasting 

Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover 

Strength: EQ 0.125 mg base/0.05 mg per spray 

Dose: Azelastine hydrochloride EQ 0.5 mg base and fluticasone propionate 0.2 mg, administered as 
two sprays in each nostril 

Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population 

Additional comments: 1) Follow the reference listed drug (RLD) labeling for the method of drug 
administration; 2) The analytical method should have sufficient sensitivity to adequately quantify the 
concentration of fluticasone propionate and azelastine in blood [for fluticasone propionate, assay 
method with Limit of Quantification (LOQ) = 1 pg/mL is suggested]. 

 

Analytes to measure: Fluticasone propionate and azelastine in plasma 

 

Equivalence based on: AUC and Cmax for fluticasone propionate and azelastine. The 90% 
confidence intervals for the geometric mean T/R ratios of AUC and Cmax should fall within the limits 
of 80.00–125.00% 

 

 

Clinical Endpoint BE Study 

 

The following BE study with a clinical endpoint is recommended. 

 

The recommendations provided here supersede information provided in the draft guidance for 
industry Bioavailability and Bioequivalence Studies for Nasal Aerosols and Nasal Sprays for 
Local Action (April 2003). These recommendations are specific to this product and may not be 
appropriate for BE studies of any other product, including any other dosage form or strength of 
azelastine hydrochloride and fluticasone propionate. 

 

Type of study: BE Study with Clinical Endpoint2 

2 A clinical endpoint BE study is recommended because of an inability at the present time to adequately characterize 
drug particle size distribution (PSD) in aerosols and sprays. Drug PSD in suspension formulations has the potential 
to influence the rate and extent of drug availability to nasal sites of action and to systemic circulation. 

Design: Randomized, double-blind, three-arm, placebo-controlled, parallel group 

Strength: EQ 0.125 mg/0.05 mg per spray 

Dose: EQ 0.25 mg/0.1 mg twice-daily, administered as one spray in each nostril 

Subjects: Subjects with seasonal allergic rhinitis 

Additional comments: Specific recommendations are provided below 

 


Additional comments regarding the BE study with clinical endpoint: 

 

1. The FDA recommends conducting a single BE study with clinical endpoint in the 
treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR) consisting of 2 periods: a 7-day, single-
blinded, placebo run-in period (Study days -7 to -1) to establish a baseline and to identify 
placebo responders, followed by a 14-day treatment period (Study Days 1 to 14). Prime 
each product as per RLD labeling instructions prior to initial dosing. During the placebo 
run-in period, all subjects are to receive the placebo vehicle administered as one spray in 
each nostril twice daily for 7 days. All subjects who qualify after the placebo run-in 
period are to be randomized to receive the test product, reference, or placebo (vehicle) 
control during the treatment period, administered as one spray in each nostril twice daily 
for 14 days. The primary endpoint is the difference in the mean change in reflective total 
nasal symptom scores from baseline to the treatment period. 
2. A multicenter study is recommended to avoid potential investigator bias. 
3. A double dummy design is not recommended for study blinding due to a concern that the 
doubled fluid volume may result in washing the drug from its nasal deposition sites, 
potentially resulting in an altered safety and efficacy profile. 
4. Inclusion criteria, at a minimum, should include the following: 


 

a. Males and nonpregnant females, 18 years of age and older. 
b. For female subjects of childbearing potential: agreement to practice an approved 
method of birth control. 
c. History of seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR). 
d. Positive test for relevant specific allergens (e.g., allergen skin test). 
e. Demonstration of significant symptoms during screening and randomization, as 
measured by a reflective total nasal symptom score of, for example, at least 6 at the 
time of enrollment (see items 7 and 8). 


 

5. Exclusion criteria, at a minimum, should include the following: 


 

a. For females: Pregnancy, lactating, or planning to become pregnant during the study 
period. 
b. Active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; untreated local or 
systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections. 
c. Presence of glaucoma, cataracts, ocular herpes simplex, conjunctivitis, or other eye 
infection. 
d. Presence of any nasal mucosal erosion, nasal septal ulcers, or septum perforation on 
focused nasal examination at screening or randomization. 
e. Recent nasal or sinus surgery or nasal trauma. 
f. Other nasal disease(s) likely to affect deposition of intranasal medication, such as 
chronic sinusitis, rhinitis medicamentosa, clinically significant polyposis, or nasal 
structural abnormalities. 
g. Presence or history of any clinically significant condition that, in the opinion of the 



investigator, would compromise the safety of the subject or the conduct of the study. 
h. Planned travel outside of the pollen area during the trial. 
i. Use of any investigational drug within 30 days prior to screening. 
j. Any hypersensitivity to azelastine hydrochloride,fluticasone propionate, similar 
drugs, or any of the inactive ingredients. 
k. Respiratory tract infection requiring antibiotic within 14 days prior to screening 
l. History of significant pulmonary disease, including asthma (with the exception of 
mild intermittent asthma) or COPD. 
m. Use of any prohibited medications and treatments (including antihistamines, 
decongestants, leukotriene antagonists, corticosteroids, other nasal therapies, potent 
cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole, etc.) prior to screening [the 
sponsor should provide a list of treatments with justification/rationale provided for 
duration of the washout period prior to screening]. 
6. The protocol should include a list of the prescription and over-the-counter drug products, 
procedures, and activities that are prohibited during the study, such as antihistamines 
decongestants, leukotriene antagonists, corticosteroids, anti-IgE antibodies (e.g., 
omalizumab), immunosuppressive therapy, and potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors 
such as ketoconazole. 


 

7. Subjects should self-score their symptoms twice daily (AM and PM, 12 hours apart at the 
same times daily) throughout the 7-day placebo run-in period and the 14-day randomized 
treatment period. Scoring should be made immediately prior to each dose (and 12 hours 
after the AM dose for once-daily dosing), to reflect the previous 12 hours (reflective 
scores) and how the subject is feeling at the time of evaluation, i.e., at the end of dosing 
interval (instantaneous scores). Each of the following symptom should be scored using 
the following scale: 
a. Symptoms: runny nose, sneezing, nasal itching, and congestion. 
b. Scoring Scale: The following is an example of an acceptable scale. Each score 
should be objectively defined. 


 

Table 1: Sample Scoring Scale 

Score 

Description 

0 

absent symptoms (no symptom evident) 

1 

mild symptoms (symptom clearly present, but minimal awareness; easily 
tolerated) 

2 

moderate symptoms (definite awareness of symptom that is bothersome but 
tolerable) 

3 

severe symptoms (symptom that is hard to tolerate; causes interference with 
activities of daily living and/or sleeping) 



 

8. Total nasal symptom score (TNSS) is the sum of each individual symptom rating for 
runny nose, sneezing, nasal itching, and congestion. 



9. Baseline mean reflective TNSS (rTNSS) is the mean of the final seven scores from the 
placebo run-in period. The final seven scores from the placebo run-in period consist of 
the AM and PM scores on Days -3, -2, and -1 and the AM score (prior to drug dosing) on 
Day 1 of the 14-day randomized treatment period. 
10. Placebo responders should be identified based on demonstration of significant symptoms 
during screening and randomization, as measured by reflective TNSS at the baseline, for 
example, mean rTNSS of at least 6. Placebo responders should be excluded from the 
study to increase the ability to show a significant difference between active and placebo 
treatments, and to increase sensitivity to detect potential differences between active 
products. 
11. Treatment mean rTNSS is the average of 27 scores from the randomized treatment 
period. The 27 scores consist of the PM score on Day 1 and the AM and PM scores on 
Days 2 to 14. 
12. The recommended primary endpoint is the change from the baseline mean rTNSS to the 
treatment mean rTNSS, expressed in absolute units rather than percent change from 
baseline. 
13. The recommended secondary endpoint is the change from the baseline mean 
instantaneous (iTNSS) and the treatment mean iTNSS, expressed in absolute units rather 
than percent change from baseline. 
14. The protocol should clearly, prospectively define the per-protocol (PP), modified intent-
to-treat (mITT), and safety populations. 
a. The accepted PP population used for BE evaluation includes all randomized subjects 
who meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria, take a pre-specified proportion of the 
scheduled doses (e.g., at least 75% to no more than 125% overall compliance) of the 
assigned product for the specified duration of the study, do not miss the scheduled 
study drug administrations for more than 3 consecutive days, record a prespecified 
number of qualifying rTNSS scores (e.g., 75% to 125%), and complete the 
evaluations as prespecified in the protocol at approximately the same time of the day, 
with no protocol violations that would affect the treatment evaluation. The protocol 
should specify how compliance will be verified, e.g., by the use of subject diaries. 
b. The mITT population includes all subjects randomized into the treatment period who 
have taken at least one dose of assigned product during the treatment period (see 
comment #26 for applied use of mITT population). 
c. The safety population includes all randomized subjects who received at least one dose 
of study product treatment. 





 

15. Subjects who discontinue early from the study due to a lack of treatment effect should be 
included in the mITT and PP populations. Only subjects discontinued from the study for 
other reasons clearly not related to a lack of efficacy or emergence of safety concerns 
should be excluded from the PP population, but should remain in the mITT population. 



16. The start and stop dates of concomitant medication use during the study should be 
provided in the dataset in addition to the reason for the medication use. The sponsor 
should clearly explain whether the medication was used prior to baseline visit, during the 
study, or both. 
17. All adverse events (AEs) should be reported, whether or not they are considered to be 
related to the treatment. The report of AEs should include date of onset, description of 
the AE, severity, relation to study medication, action taken, outcome, and date of 
resolution. This information is needed to determine whether the incidence and severity of 
adverse reactions is different between the test product and reference product. 


 

18. The quantitative information of inactive ingredients of the placebo control should be 
provided. OGD recommends that the inactive ingredients in the placebo product be 
qualitatively and quantitatively the same as the inactive ingredients in the RLD 
formulation. 
19. A detailed description of the blinding procedure is to be provided in the protocol. The 
packaging of the test, reference, and placebo products should be similar in appearance to 
make differences in treatment less obvious to the subjects and to maintain adequate 
blinding of evaluators. Neither the subject nor the investigator should be able to identify 
the treatment. The containers should not be opened by the subject in the presence of the 
evaluator at the study center. 
20. OGD recommends that each of the test and reference batches used in the clinical endpoint 
BE study be at least one of the three batches used for the in vitro BE studies. 
21. Refer to 21 CFR 320.38, 320.63, and the guidance for industry Handling and Retention of 
BA and BE Testing Samples regarding retention of study drug samples. Refer to 21 CFR 
320.36 for requirements for maintenance of records of BE testing. In addition, the 
investigators should follow the procedures of ICH E6, Good Clinical Practice: 
Consolidated Guideline, for retention of study records and data in order to conduct their 
studies in compliance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) and Good Clinical Practices 
(GCP). At least 50 units each of the test, reference, and placebo products, with not less 
than 5 units per each shipment per site, should be retained as reserve samples. Retention 
samples should be randomly selected from each drug shipment by each study site and 
retained by the investigator or an independent third party not involved with packaging 
and labeling of the study products. Retention samples should not be returned to the 
sponsor at any time. 
22. It is the sponsor’s responsibility to enroll sufficient subjects for the study to demonstrate 
bioequivalence between the products. 
23. Subjects who discontinued from the study early should be identified, and the protocol 
should clearly, prospectively state how missing data will be handled in the statistical 
analyses and provide appropriate justification for the method chosen. The protocol 



should also include subject retention strategies and other plans to minimize missing data. 
24. We recommend using a statistical model for the endpoint data that takes into account 
baseline values. If the study was conducted at multiple clinical centers, center should 
also be considered in the data analysis. 


 

25. To establish BE for a continuous endpoint, the Agency recommends the following 
compound hypotheses be tested using the PP population: 


 

HO: µT /µR <-.1 or µT /µR > .2 versus HA : .1= µT /µR = .2 

 

where µT = mean of the primary endpoint for the test group, and 

µR = mean of the primary endpoint of the reference group 

 

The null hypothesis, HO, is rejected with a type I error (a) of 0.05 (two one-sided tests) if 
the estimated 90% CI for the ratio of the means between T and R (µT /µR) is contained 
within the interval [.1, .2], where .1 = 0.80 and .2 = 1.25. Rejection of the null 
hypothesis supports the conclusion of equivalence of the two products. 

 

26. To establish sensitivity within the study for a continuous primary endpoint, both the test and 
reference products should be statistically superior to the placebo. Conduct an appropriate 
inferential test with a type I error (a) of 0.05, using the mITT population and the primary 
endpoint. 


 

27. The method of randomization should be described in the protocol and the randomization 
schedule provided as a SAS data set in .xpt format (created using SAS XPORT). The 
Agency recommends that an independent third party generate and hold the randomization 
code throughout the conduct of the study in order to minimize bias. The sponsor may 
generate the randomization code if not involved in the packaging and labeling of the 
study medication. A sealed copy of the randomization scheme should be retained at the 
study site and should be available to FDA investigators at the time of site inspection to 
allow for verification of the treatment identity of each subject. 


 

28. Study data should be submitted to the Office of Generic Drugs (OGD) in electronic 
format. All data should be submitted as an SAS .xpt file, created using SAS XPORT (not 
CPORT). 
a. Include a list of file names, a description of the content of each file, an explanation 
of the variables within each file, and a description of all variable codes (for example, 
for the treatment variable, A = TEST and B = Reference). 
b. Provide two primary data sets: one with raw data (as collected) and one dataset 
modified for missing data as specified prospectively. 
c. Provide a separate data set for demographic, vital sign, adverse event, disposition 
(including reason for discontinuation of treatment), trial arms, subject visits, 
concomitant medication, medical history, compliance, protocol deviation, pollen 
count, and comment variables. 





 


29. Provide a summary data set containing a separate line listing for each subject (if data 
exist) using the following headings, if applicable: 
a. Study identifier 
b. Subject identifier 
c. Site identifier: study center 
d. Age 
e. Age units (years) 
f. Sex 
g. Race 
h. Name of Actual Treatment (exposure): test product, reference, placebo control 
i. Total number of doses taken during the placebo run-in period 
j. Total number of doses taken during the treatment period 
k. Completed the study (yes/no) 
l. Reason for premature discontinuation of subject 
m. Subject required additional treatment for seasonal allergic rhinitis due to 
unsatisfactory treatment response 
n. Per Protocol (PP) population inclusion (yes/no) 
o. Reason for exclusion from PP population 
p. Modified Intent to Treat (mITT) population inclusion (yes/no) 
q. Reason for exclusion from mITT population 
r. Safety population inclusion (yes/no) 
s. Reason for exclusion from Safety population 
t. Baseline rTNSS total score 
u. Total number of baseline rTNSS ratings 
v. Treatment period rTNSS total score 
w. Total number of treatment period rTNSS ratings 
x. Baseline iTNSS total score 
y. Total number of baseline iTNSS ratings 
z. Treatment period iTNSS total score 
aa. Total number of treatment period iTNSS ratings 
bb. Baseline mean rTNSS 
cc. Treatment period mean rTNSS 
dd. Mean change from baseline in rTNSS 
ee. Baseline mean iTNSS 
ff. Treatment period mean iTNSS 
gg. Mean change from baseline in iTNSS 
hh. Treatment compliance: number of missed doses per subject 
ii. Concomitant medication (yes/no) 
jj. Adverse event(s) reported (yes/no) 





 

Table 2 provides an example. Note: This sample table may contain additional information not 
applicable to your study and/or it may not contain all information applicable to your study. 

 

 

 

 


Table 2: Example of a Summary Data Set Containing One Line Listing for Each Subject 

 

STUDYID 

SUBJID 

SITEID 

AGE 

AGEU 

SEX 

RACE 

EXTRT 

dose_pla 

dose_trt 

completd 

disc_rs 

add_trt 

pp 

pp_rs 

mitt 

mitt_rs 

101 

1 

01 

21 

YEARS 

F 

1 

A 

 

 

Y 

C 

 

Y 

 

Y 

 

101 

2 

01 

30 

YEARS 

F 

1 

B 

 

 

Y 

D 

 

Y 

 

Y 

 



 

safety 

safe_rs 

rs_base 

rn_base 

rs_trt 

rn_trt 

is_base 

in_base 

istrt 

in_trt 

rtnss_b 

rtnss_tt 

rtnss_ch 

itnss_b 

itnss_tt 

itnss_ch 

complian 

CM 

AE 

Y 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Y 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

NOTE: Capitalized headings are from Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium 
(CDISC) Study Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) Implementation Guide (IG) for Human 
Clinical Trials V3.1.2 Final, dated 11/12/08. 

 

STUDYID: Study Identifier 

SUBJID: Subject Identifier for the Study 

SITEID: Study Site Identifier 

AGE: Age 

AGEU: Age units (years) 

SEX: Sex, e.g., M=Male, F=Female, U=Unknown 

RACE: Race, e.g., 1=White, 2=Black or African American, 3=Asian, 4=American 
Indian or Alaska Native, 5=Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islanders 

EXTRT: Name of Actual Treatment (exposure), e.g., A=test product, B= reference, 
C=placebo control 

dose_pla: Total number of doses taken during the placebo-run-in period 

dose_trt : Total number of doses taken during the treatment period 

completd: Subject completed the study, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

disc_rs: Reason for premature discontinuation from the study, e.g., A=adverse 
event, B=death, C=lost to follow-up, D=non-compliance with treatment, 
E=treatment unblinded, F=subject moved out of area, G=unsatisfactory 
treatment response, H=withdrew consent, I=protocol violation, K=other 
event 

add_trt: Subject required additional treatment for seasonal allergic rhinitis due to 
unsatisfactory treatment response, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

pp: Per Protocol (PP) population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 


pp_rs: Reason for exclusion from PP population, e.g., A=prematurely 
discontinued, B=lost to follow-up, C=subject moved out of the area, 
D=noncompliant, etc. 

mitt: Modified Intent to Treat (mITT) population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

mitt_rs: Reason for exclusion from mITT population, e.g., A=never treated, etc. 

safety: Safety population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

safe_rs Reason for exclusion from Safety population, e.g., A=never treated, etc. 

rs_base: Baseline rTNSS total score 

rn_base: Total number of baseline rTNSS ratings 

rs_trt Treatment period rTNSS total score 

rn_trt: Total number of treatment period rTNSS ratings 

is_base: Baseline iTNSS total score 

in_base: Total number of baseline iTNSS ratings 

is_trt: Treatment period iTNSS total score 

in_trt: Total number of treatment period iTNSS ratings 

rtnss_b: Baseline mean rTNSS, e.g., 0 to 12 

rtnss_tt: Treatment period mean rTNSS, e.g., 0 to 12 

rtnss_ch: Mean change from baseline in rTNSS 

itnss_b: Baseline mean iTNSS, e.g., 0 to 12 

itnss_tt: Treatment period mean iTNSS, e.g., 0 to 12 

itnss_ch: Mean change from baseline in iTNSS 

complian: Treatment compliance, e.g., number of missed doses per subject 

CM: Concomitant medication, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

AE: Adverse event(s) reported, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

 

30. Provide a data set containing a separate line listing for each study day per subject (if data 
exist). The following headers are recommended, if applicable: 
a. Study identifier 
b. Subject identifier 
c. Name of Actual Treatment (exposure): test product, reference, placebo control 
d. Study day sequence number 
e. Actual date of study day 
f. Number of days since baseline visit 
g. Reflective Runny nose score 
h. Reflective Sneezing score 
i. Reflective Nasal itching score 
j. Reflective Congestion score 
k. Reflective total nasal symptom score 
l. Instantaneous Runny nose score 
m. Instantaneous Sneezing score 
n. Instantaneous Nasal itching score 
o. Instantaneous Congestion score 
p. Instantaneous total nasal symptom score 
q. Date of symptom scoring 
r. Time of symptom scoring (e.g., AM, PM) 
s. Date of dosing 



t. Time of dosing (e.g., AM, PM) 


 

Table 3 provides an example. Note: This sample table may contain additional information 
not applicable to your study and/or it may not contain all information applicable to your 
study. 

 

Table 3: Example of Data Set Containing One Line Listing for Each Study Day Per 
Subject 

STUDYID 

SUBJID 

EXTRT 

studydy 

studydt 

ELTMBS 

rrunny_s 

rsneeze_s 

ritch_s 

rconge_s 

rtnss 

irunny_s 

isneeze_s 

iitch_s 

iconge_s 

itnss 

101 

1 

A 

1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

scrdtc 

scrttc 

dosedtc 

dosettc 

 

am 

 

am 



 

Note: Capitalized headings are from Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) 
Study Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) Implementation Guide (IG) for Human Clinical Trials 
V3.1.2 Final, dated 11/12/08. 

 

STUDYID: Study Identifier 

SUBJID: Subject Identifier for the Study 

EXTRT: Name of Actual Treatment (exposure), e.g., A=test product, B= reference, 
C= placebo control 

studydy: Study day sequence number, e.g., -7 to 14 

studydt: Actual date of study day 

ELTMBL: Elapsed Time since Baseline Visit (days) 

rrunny_s: Reflective runny nose score, e.g., 0 to 3 

rsneeze_s: Reflective sneezing score, e.g., 0 to 3 

ritch_s: Reflective nasal itching score, e.g., 0 to 3 

rconge_s: Reflective congestion score, e.g., 0 to 3 

rtnss: Total reflective nasal symptom score e.g., 0 to 12 

irunny_s: Instantaneous runny nose score, e.g., 0 to 3 

isneeze_s: Instantaneous sneezing score, e.g., 0 to 3 

iitch_s: Instantaneous nasal itching score, e.g., 0 to 3 

iconge_s: Instantaneous congestion score, e.g., 0 to 3 

itnss: Total instantaneous nasal symptom score , e.g., 0 to 12 


scrdtc: Date of symptom scoring 

scrttc: Time of symptom scoring, e.g., AM, PM 

dosedtc: Date of dosing 

dosettc: Time of dosing 

 

 

Additional Information 

 

Number of Reserve Samples: 

 

At least 50 units of each of three batches should be retained for each of T and R products used in 
in vitro or in vivo PK BE studies. If these studies include placebo product, at least 50 units of 
each placebo batch should also be retained. If these studies are conducted at multiple sites, the 
number of BE retention samples is recommended to be not less than 10 units per batch per site. 

 

Formulation and Device: 

 

The generic product formulation is recommended to be qualitatively (Q1)3 and quantitatively 
(Q2)4 the same as the R product. The generic product is recommended to deliver the same 
number of doses as the R product, and the device should be similar in shape, size, and external 
operating principles to ensure substitutability with the R product without additional need to 
retrain patients upon use of the generic product. 

3 Q1 (qualitative sameness) means that the T product uses the same inactive ingredient(s) as the R product. 

4 Q2 (quantitative sameness) means that concentration of the inactive ingredient(s) used in the T product are within 
±5% of those used in the R product. 

 

 


