Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Azilsartan Medoxomil 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies 
the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative 
approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Azilsartan Medoxomil 
Form/Route: Tablet; Oral 
Recommended studies: 2 studies 

1. Type of study: Fasting 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in vivo 
Strength: 80mg 
Subjects: Normal healthy males and females, general population 
Additional comments: Females should not be pregnant, and if applicable, should practice 
abstention or contraception during the study. 
2. Type of study: Fed 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in vivo 
Strength: 80mg 
Subjects: Normal healthy males and females, general population 
Additional comments: Please see comment above. 


Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Azilsartan in plasma 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Azilsartan 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: 40mg based on (i) acceptable bioequivalence studies on the 
80mg strength, (ii) acceptable in vitro dissolution testing of all strengths, and (iii) proportional 
similarity of the formulations across all strengths. 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 
Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website 
at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the dissolution 
information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 
dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be 
determined upon review of the application. 

Recommended Jun 2012 


