 

Active Ingredient: Benazepril hydrochloride; Hydrochlorothiazide 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Tablet; oral 

 

Recommended Studies: Two studies 

 

1. Type of study: Fasting 


Design: Single-dose, two-period, two-sequence, two-treatment crossover in vivo 

Strength: 20 mg/25 mg 

Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population 

Additional comments: Females should not be pregnant or lactating, and, if applicable, 
should practice abstention or contraception during the study. See additional warning on 
fetal toxicity in the approved drug label. 

 

 

2. Type of study: Fed 


Design: Single-dose, two-period, two-sequence, two-treatment crossover in vivo 

Strength: 20 mg/25 mg 

Subjects: Healthy males and females, general population 

Additional comments: Same as comments above 

 

 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Benazepril, its active metabolite, 
benazeprilat, and hydrochlorothiazide in plasma 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Benazepril and hydrochlorothiazide 

 

Submit the metabolite data as supportive evidence of comparable therapeutic outcome. For the 
metabolite, the following data should be submitted: individual and mean concentrations, 
individual and mean pharmacokinetic parameters, and geometric means and ratios of means for 
AUC and Cmax. 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: 5 mg/6.25 mg, 10 mg/12.5 mg, and 20 mg/12.5 mg strengths 
based on (i) acceptable bioequivalence studies on the 20 mg/25 mg strength, (ii) proportional 
similarity of the formulations across all strengths, and (iii) acceptable in vitro dissolution testing 
of all strengths. 

 


Dissolution test method and sampling times: The dissolution information for this drug 
product can be found on the FDA-Recommended Dissolution Methods Web site, available to the 
public at the following location: http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. 
Conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of the test and reference 
products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the abbreviated new drug application 
(ANDA). 


