Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Benazepril Hydrochloride 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies 
the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative 
approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Benazepril Hydrochloride 

Form/Route: Tablet/Oral 

Recommended studies: 2 studies 

1. Type of study: Fasting 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: 40 mg 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population. 
Additional comments: 
2. Type of study: Fed 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: 40 mg 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population. 
Additional comments: 


Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Benazepril and its active metabolite, 
benazeprilat in plasma. 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Benazepril 

Please submit the metabolite data as supportive evidence of comparable therapeutic outcome. 
For the metabolite, the following data should be submitted: individual and mean concentrations, 
individual and mean pharmacokinetic parameters, and geometric means and ratios of means for 
AUC and Cmax. 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: 5 mg, 10 mg and 20 mg based on (i) acceptable 
bioequivalence studies on the 40 mg strength, (ii) acceptable in-vitro dissolution testing of all 
strengths, and (iii) proportional similarity of the formulations across all strengths. 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 
Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website 
at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the dissolution 
information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 
dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be 
determined upon review of the application. 

Recommended Jul 2010 


