Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Benzoyl Peroxide; Erythromycin 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies 
the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative 
approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Benzoyl Peroxide; Erythromycin 

Form/Route: Gel (0.8 grams packaged in a two-compartment pouch)/Topical 

Recommended studies: 1 study 

Type of study: Bioequivalence (BE) Study with Clinical Endpoint 
Design: Randomized, double blind, parallel, placebo controlled, in vivo 
Strength: 5%; 3% 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females with acne vulgaris 
Additional comments: Specific recommendations are provided below. 


Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Not Applicable 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Clinical endpoint 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: Not Applicable 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: Not Applicable 

Additional comments regarding the BE study with clinical endpoint: 

1. The Office of Generic Drugs (OGD) recommends conducting a BE study with clinical endpoint 
in the treatment of acne vulgaris. Subjects are to be randomized to receive the generic benzoyl 
peroxide; erythromycin topical gel, 5%; 3%, the reference listed drug (RLD) or placebo. The 
study drug is to be administered twice daily, in the morning and evening, to affected areas of the 
face for 8 weeks. The primary endpoint is to be evaluated at the end of treatment (study Week 8). 
2. A placebo control arm is recommended to demonstrate that the test product and RLD are active 
and as a parameter to establish that the study is sufficiently sensitive to detect differences 
between products. 
3. Inclusion Criteria (the sponsor may add additional criteria) 
a. Healthy male or nonpregnant female aged = 12 and = 40 years with a clinical diagnosis of 
acne vulgaris. 
b. On the face, = 25 non-inflammatory lesions (i.e., open and closed comedones) AND = 20 
inflammatory lesions (i.e., papules and pustules) AND = 2 nodulocystic lesions (i.e., nodules 
and cysts). 
c. Investigator’s Global Assessment (IGA) of acne severity grade 2, 3, or 4 (per Table 1). 







Table 1. Sample IGA Scale for Acne Vulgaris1 

Grade Description 
0 Clear skin with no inflammatory or noninflammatory lesions 
1 Almost clear; rare noninflammatory lesions with no more than one small inflammatory lesion 
2 Mild severity; greater than Grade 1; some noninflammatory lesions with no more than a few 
inflammatory lesions (papules/pustules only, no nodular lesions) 
3 Moderate severity; greater than Grade 2; up to many noninflammatory lesions and may have 
some inflammatory lesions, but no more than one small nodular lesion 
4* Severe; greater than Grade 3; up to many noninflammatory lesions and may have some 
inflammatory lesions, but no more than a few nodular lesions 

* The Case Report Forms for acne studies can allow for reporting by investigators of lesion worsening 
beyond Grade 4 with treatment. It is recommended that enrollment of acne vulgaris subjects not include 
subjects with nodulocystic acne. Subjects who worsen beyond Grade 4 are to be described in the safety 
evaluation. 

d. Willing to refrain from use of all other topical acne medications or antibiotics during the 8week 
treatment period. 
e. If female of childbearing potential, willing to use an acceptable form of birth control during 
the study. 


4. Exclusion Criteria (the sponsor may add additional criteria) 

a. Presence of any skin condition that would interfere with the diagnosis or assessment of acne 
vulgaris (e.g., on the face: rosacea, dermatitis, psoriasis, squamous cell carcinoma, eczema, 
acneform eruptions caused by medications, steroid acne, steroid folliculitis, or bacterial 
folliculitis). 
b. Excessive facial hair (e.g. beards, sideburns, moustaches, etc.) that would interfere with 
diagnosis or assessment of acne vulgaris. 
c. History of hypersensitivity or allergy to benzoyl peroxide or erythromycin and/or any of the 
study medication ingredients. 
d. Use within 6 months prior to baseline of oral retinoids (e.g. Accutane®) or therapeutic 
vitamin A supplements of greater than 10,000 units/day (multivitamins are allowed). 
e. Use for less than 3 months prior to baseline of estrogens or oral contraceptives; use of such 
therapy must remain constant throughout the study. 
f. Use on the face within 1 month prior to baseline of 1) cryodestruction or chemodestruction, 
2) dermabrasion, 3) photodynamic therapy, 4) acne surgery, 5) intralesional steroids, or 6) x-
ray therapy. 
g. Use within 1 month prior to baseline of 1) spironolactone, 2) systemic steroids, 3) systemic 
antibiotics, 4) systemic treatment for acne vulgaris (other than oral retinoids, which require a 
6-month washout), or 5) systemic anti-inflammatory agents. 
h. Use within 2 weeks prior to baseline of 1) topical steroids, 2) topical retinoids, 3) topical acne 
treatments including over-the-counter preparations, 4) topical anti-inflammatory agents, or 5) 
topical antibiotics. 


1 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration, Center for Drug Evaluation and 
Research. Draft Guidance for Industry: Acne Vulgaris: Developing Drugs for Treatment. Clinical/Medical. 
September 2005. Accessed at 
http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/UCM071292.pdf 


5. Prior to applying the product, subjects should cleanse the face with a mild or soapless, non-
medicated cleanser and pat dry. Subjects should then thoroughly mix the contents of the pouch (in 
the palm of the hand) immediately prior to application. Subjects should apply the product onto 
the affected areas of the face twice daily, in the morning and evening, avoiding contact with the 
mouth, eyes, and other mucous membranes. Subjects should then wash their hands. 
6. Subjects should not mix or apply product near an open flame. Subjects should not apply 
moisturizers, new brands of make-up, creams, lotions, powders or any topical product other than 
the assigned treatment to the treatment area. Subjects should minimize exposure to sunlight, 
including sunlamps, while using the product. Use of sunscreen products and protective clothing 
over treated areas is recommended when sun exposure cannot be avoided. Subjects should be 
informed that product may bleach hair or colored fabric. 
7. The protocol should include a list of the prescription and over-the-counter drug products, 
procedures, and activities that are prohibited during the study, such as: 
a. Any other topical products applied to face. 
b. Medicated soaps used on face. 
c. Spironolactone. 
d. Oral retinoids, therapeutic vitamin A supplements of greater than 10,000 units/day 
(multivitamins are allowed) or other systemic treatment for acne vulgaris. 
e. Systemic (e.g., oral or injectable) antibiotics. 
f. Systemic steroids, systemic anti-inflammatory agents or immunosuppressive drugs. 
g. Antipruritics, including antihistamines, within 24 hours of study visits. 
h. Use on the face of 1) cryodestruction or chemodestruction, 2) dermabrasion, 3) photodynamic 
therapy, 4) acne surgery, 5) intralesional steroids, or 6) x-ray therapy. 
i. Use of tanning booths, sunbathing, or excessive exposure to the sun. 




8. The recommended primary endpoint of the study is percent change from baseline to week 8 in the 
inflammatory (papules and pustules) lesion counts. The protocol should clearly define papules, 
pustules, open comedones, closed comedones, nodules and cysts. When counting facial acne 
lesions, it is important that all lesions be counted, including those present on the nose. Counts of 
nodules and cysts should be reported separately and not included in the inflammatory or noninflammatory 
lesion counts. 
9. Noninflammatory lesions should not get any worse with treatment. Percent change from baseline 
to week 8 in the non-inflammatory lesion counts should be treated as a secondary endpoint for 
supportive evidence. 
10. The dichotomized IGA severity scale should be treated as a secondary endpoint for supportive 
evidence. This secondary endpoint for bioequivalence should be evaluated as the proportion of 
subjects with a clinical response of “success” at week 8. Success should be defined as an IGA 
score that is at least 2 grades less than the baseline assessment. Failure should be defined as an 
IGA score that is the same, higher or one grade lower than the baseline assessment. 
11. The protocol should clearly define the per-protocol (PP), modified intent-to-treat (mITT) and 
safety populations. 
12. The accepted PP population used for bioequivalence evaluation includes all randomized subjects 
who apply a prespecified proportion of the scheduled applications (e.g., 75% to 125%) of the 
assigned product for the specified duration of the study, do not miss the scheduled applications 
for more than 3 consecutive days, and complete the evaluation within the designated visit window 





(+/- 4 days) with no protocol violations that would affect the treatment evaluation. The protocol 
should specify how compliance will be verified, e.g., by the use of subject diaries. 


13. The mITT population includes all randomized subjects who met the inclusion/exclusion criteria, 
apply at least one dose of assigned product and return for at least one post-baseline evaluation 
visit. 
14. The safety population includes all randomized subjects who received study product. 
15. Subjects who are discontinued early from the study due to lack of treatment effect after 
completing 4 weeks of treatment should be included in the PP population as treatment failures. 
Subjects whose condition worsens and require alternate or supplemental therapy for the treatment 
of acne vulgaris during the study should be discontinued, included in the PP population analysis, 
and provided with effective treatment. Subjects discontinued early for other reasons should be 
excluded from the PP population, but included in the mITT population, using LOCF. 
16. The start and stop date of concomitant medication use during the study should be provided in the 
data set in addition to the reason for the medication use. 
17. All adverse events (AEs) should be reported, whether or not they are considered to be related to 
the treatment. The report of AEs should include date of onset, description of the AE, severity, 
relation to study medication, action taken, outcome and date of resolution. This information is 
needed to determine if the incidence and severity of adverse reactions is different between the test 
product and RLD. 
18. Application site reactions such as erythema, dryness, burning/stinging, erosion, edema, pain and 
itching are to be recorded at each visit to allow a comparison between treatment groups. A 
descriptive analysis comparing the application site reactions for each treatment group is 
recommended. It is important to ensure that the test product is not worse than the reference 
product with regard to the expected and unexpected application site reactions. 
19. If the inactive ingredients are different than those contained in the RLD or in significantly 
different amounts, then the sponsor is to clearly describe the differences and provide information 
to show that the differences will not affect the safety, efficacy and/or systemic or local 
availability of the drug. 
20. The method of randomization should be described in the protocol. It is recommended that an 
independent third party generate and hold the randomization code throughout the conduct of the 
study in order to minimize bias. The sponsor may generate the randomization code if not involved 
in the packaging and labeling of the study medication. A sealed copy of the randomization 
scheme should be retained at the study site and should be available to FDA investigators at the 
time of site inspection to allow for verification of the treatment identity of each subject. 
21. A detailed description of the blinding procedure is to be provided in the protocol. The packaging 
of the test, reference and placebo products should be similar in appearance to make differences in 
treatment less obvious to the subjects and to maintain adequate blinding of evaluators. When 
possible, neither the subject nor the investigator should be able to identify the treatment. The 
containers should not be opened by the subject at the study center. 
22. Please refer to 21 CFR 320.38, 320.63 and the Guidance for Industry, “Handling and Retention of 
BA and BE Testing Samples”, regarding retention of study drug samples and 21 CFR 320.36 for 





requirements for maintenance of records of bioequivalence testing. In addition, the investigators 
should follow the procedures of 21 CFR 58 and ICH E6, “Good Clinical Practice: Consolidated 
Guideline”, for retention of study records and data in order to conduct their studies in compliance 
with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) and Good Clinical Practices (GCP). Retention samples 
should be randomly selected from the drug supplies received prior to dispensing to subjects. 
Retention samples should not be returned to the sponsor at any time. 


23. It is the sponsor's responsibility to enroll sufficient subjects for the study to demonstrate 
bioequivalence between the products. 
24. To establish bioequivalence, the 90% confidence interval of the test/reference ratio of the mean 
percent change from baseline to week 8 in the inflammatory (papules and pustules) lesion counts 
should be contained within [0.80, 1.25], using the PP study population. 
25. As a parameter for determining adequate study sensitivity, the test product and RLD should be 
statistically superior to placebo (p<0.05) with regard to percent change from baseline to week 8 in 
the inflammatory lesion counts using the mITT study population and Last Observation Carried 
Forward (LOCF). 
26. The following Statistical Analysis Method is recommended for equivalence testing for a 
continuous variable: 


Equivalence Analysis 

The compound hypothesis to be tested is: 

H0: µT / µR =.1 or µT / µR =.2 versus HA : .1 < µT / µR < .2 

Where µT = mean of test treatment, and µR = mean of reference treatment 

Typically, we reject H0 with a type I error a = 0.05 (two 1-sided tests), if the 90% confidence 
interval for the ratio of means between test and reference products (µT / µR) is contained 
within the interval [.1, .2], where .1 = 0.80 and .2 = 1.25. 

Rejection of the null hypothesis H0 supports the conclusion of equivalence of the two products. 

27. The following Statistical Analysis Method is recommended for equivalence testing for a 
dichotomous variable (success/failure): 

Equivalence Analysis 

Based on the usual method used in OGD for binary outcomes, the 90% confidence interval 
for the difference in success proportions between test and reference treatment must be 
contained within [-0.20, +0.20] in order to establish equivalence. 

The compound hypothesis to be tested is: 

H0: pT -pR < -0.20 or pT -pR > 0.20 

versus 


HA: -0.20 = pT -pR = 0.20 

where pT = cure rate of test treatment and pR = cure rate of reference treatment. 

Let 
nT = sample size of test treatment group 
c nT = number of cured patients in test treatment group 
nR = sample size of reference treatment group 
c nR = number of cured patients in reference treatment group 

^ ^

p = c nT / nT , p = c nR / nR ,

T R 

^^ ^^ 

and se = ( p (1 -p )/ nT + p (1 -p )/ nR ) ½. 

TT RR 

The 90% confidence interval for the difference in proportions between test and reference was 
calculated as follows, using Yates’ correction: 

^^ 

L = ( p -p ) – 1.645 se – (1/ nT + 1/ nR )/2

TR 

^^ 

U = ( p -p ) + 1.645 se + (1/ nT + 1/ nR )/2

TR 

We reject H0 if L = -0.20 and U = 0.20 

Rejection of the null hypothesis H0 supports the conclusion of equivalence of the two products. 

28. Rank transformation of the data may be needed if the data is significantly skewed such that 
analysis of the raw data would not be valid. 
29. Study data should be submitted to the OGD in electronic format. 
a. A list of file names, with a simple description of the content of each file, should be included. 
Such a list should include an explanation of the variables included in each of the data sets. 
b. Please provide a “pdf” document with a detailed description of the codes that are used for 
each variable in each of the SAS datasets (for example, Y=yes, N=no for analysis 
population). 
c. All SAS transport files, covering all variables collected in the Case Report Forms (CRFs) per 
subject, should include .xpt as the file extension and should not be compressed. A simple 
SAS program to open the data transport files and SAS files should be included. 
d. Primary data sets should consist of two data sets: No Last Observation Carried Forward (NOLOCF-
pure data set) and Last Observation Carried Forward (LOCF-modified data set). 
e. Please provide a separate dataset for variables such as demographics, lesion counts, vital 
signs, adverse events, disposition (including reason for discontinuation of treatment), 
concomitant medications, medical history, compliance and comments, etc.. 







30. Please provide a summary dataset containing a separate line listing for each subject (if data exist) 
using the following headings, if applicable: 
a. Study identifier 
b. Subject identifier 
c. Site identifier: study center 
d. Age 
e. Age units (years) 
f. Sex 
g. Race 
h. Name of Actual Treatment (exposure): test product, RLD, placebo control 
i. Location of Treatment Area 
j. Duration of Treatment (total exposure in days) 
k. Completed the study (yes/no) 
l. Reason for premature discontinuation of subject 
m. Subject required additional treatment for acne vulgaris due to unsatisfactory treatment 
response (yes/no) 
n. Per Protocol (PP) population inclusion (yes/no) 
o. Reason for exclusion from PP population 
p. Modified Intent to Treat (mITT) population inclusion (yes/no) 
q. Reason for exclusion from mITT population 
r. Safety population inclusion (yes/no) 
s. Reason for exclusion from Safety population 
t. Total number of inflammatory lesions on the face at baseline 
u. Total number of non-inflammatory lesions on the face at baseline 
v. Total number of nodules/cysts on the face at baseline 
w. IGA score at baseline 
x. Total number of inflammatory lesions on the face at week 8 
y. Total number of non-inflammatory lesions on the face at week 8 
z. Total number of nodules/cysts on the face at week 8 
aa. IGA score at week 8 
bb. Final designation for IGA (success/failure) 






cc. Treatment compliance : number of missed doses per subject 
dd. Concomitant medication (yes/no) 
ee. Adverse event(s) reported (yes/no) 


Please refer to Table 2 as an example. This sample table may contain additional information not 
applicable to your study and/or it may not contain all information applicable to your study. 

Table 2: Example of a summary dataset containing one line listing for each subject 

STUDYID 
SUBJIDSITEIDAGEAGEU 
SEXRACEEXTRTEXLOC 
EXDUR 
completddisc_rsadd_trtpppp_rsmittmitt_rs 
101 1 01 21 YEARS F 1 A Face 14 Y N Y Y 
101 2 01 30 YEARS F 1 B Face 14 Y N Y Y 


safetysafe_rsnuminfbnumnonbnumnodbiga_bnuminf8numnon8numnod8iga_8iga_fcomplianCMAE 
Y 32 45 0 3 16 30 0 2 F 0 Y Y 
Y 25 36 1 3 10 18 1 1 S 0 N N 

Note: Capitalized headings are from Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Study 
Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) Implementation Guide (IG) for Human Clinical Trials V3.1.2 Final 
dated 11/12/08. 

STUDYID: Study Identifier 
SUBJID: Subject Identifier for the Study 
SITEID: Study Site Identifier 
AGE: Age 
AGEU: Age units (years) 
SEX: Sex, e.g., M=Male, F=Female, U=Unknown 
RACE: Race, e.g., 1=White, 2=Black or African American, 3=Asian, 4=American Indian 

or Alaska Native, 5=Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islanders 
EXTRT: Name of Actual Treatment (exposure), e.g., A=test product, B= RLD, C=placebo 

control 
EXLOC: Location of Treatment Area, e.g. F=face, etc. 
EXDUR: Duration of Treatment (total exposure in days) 
completd: Subject completed the study, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
disc_rs: Reason for premature discontinuation from the study, e.g., A=adverse event, 

B=death, C=lost to follow-up, D=non-compliance with treatment, E=treatment 
unblinded, F=subject moved out of area, G=unsatisfactory treatment response, 
H=withdrew consent, I=protocol violation, K=other event 

add_trt: Subject required additional treatment for acne due to unsatisfactory treatment 

response, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
pp: Per Protocol (PP) population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
pp_rs: Reason for exclusion from PP population, e.g., A=prematurely discontinued, 

B=lost to follow-up, C=subject moved out of the area, D=noncompliant, etc. 
mitt: Modified Intent to Treat (mITT) population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
mitt_rs: Reason for exclusion from mITT population, e.g., A=never treated, etc. 
safety: Safety population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
safe_rs: Reason for exclusion from Safety population, e.g., A=never treated, etc. 
numinfb: Total number of inflammatory lesions on face at baseline 
numnonb: Total number of noninflammatory lesions on face at baseline 
numnodb: Total number of nodular/cystic lesions on face at baseline 
iga_b: IGA score at baseline, e.g., 0=Clear, 1=Almost Clear, 2=Mild, 3=Moderate 
numinf12: Total number of inflammatory lesions on face at week 12 
numnon12: Total number of noninflammatory lesions on face at week 12 
numnod12: Total number of nodular/cystic lesions on face at week 12 
iga_12: IGA score at week 12, e.g., 0=Clear, 1=Almost Clear, 2=Mild, 3=Moderate 
iga_f: Final designation for IGA, e.g., S=Success; F=Failure 
complian: Treatment compliance, e.g., number of missed doses per subject 
CM: Concomitant medication, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
AE: Adverse event(s) reported, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 


31. Please provide a dataset containing a separate line listing for visit per subject (if data exist) using 
the following headers, if applicable: 

a. Study identifier 
b. Subject identifier 
c. Name of Actual Treatment (exposure): test product, RLD, placebo control 
d. Location of Dose Administration: application site 
e. Visit number 
f. Visit date 
g. Number of days since baseline visit 
h. Evaluator: identity of evaluator 
i. Total number of inflammatory lesions 
j. Total number of noninflammatory lesions 
k. Total number of nodular/cystic lesions 
l. IGA score 
m. Skin reaction scores for each sign and symptom evaluated (e.g., erythema, dryness, 
burning/stinging, erosion, edema, pain, itching, etc.) 
n. Concomitant medication reported during this visit (yes/no) 
o. Adverse event reported during this visit (yes/no) 
p. Laboratory testing during this visit (yes/no) 


Please refer to Table 3 as an example. This sample table may contain additional information not 
applicable to your study and/or it may not contain all information applicable to your study. 

Table 3: Example of dataset containing one line listing for each visit per subject 

STUDYID 
SUBJIDEXTRTEXLOC 
VISITNUMSVSTDTCELTMBSEVALnuminfnumnonnumnodiga 
101 1 A F 1 2004-07-01 1 35 28 1 3 

erythema 
drynessburningerosionedemapainitchingCMrptAErptLBtest 
1 0 0 1 0 0 0 Y Y N 

Note: Capitalized headings are from Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Study 
Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) Implementation Guide (IG) for Human Clinical Trials V3.1.2 Final 


dated 11/12/08. 
STUDYID: Study Identifier 
SUBJID: Subject Identifier for the Study 
EXTRT: Name of Actual Treatment (exposure), e.g., A=test product, B=RLD, C= placebo 
control 
EXLOC: Location of Treatment Area: specific anatomical site of application, e.g., F=face 
etc. 
VISITNUM: Visit Sequence Number 


SVSTDTC: Visit date: (SVSTDTC=Subject Visit Start Date Time-Character) 
ELTMBL: Elapsed Time since Baseline (days) 
EVAL: Evaluator: identity of the evaluator 
numinf: Total number of inflammatory lesions on face 
numnon: Total number of noninflammatory lesions on face 
numnod: Total number of nodular/cystic lesions on face 
iga: IGA score, e.g., 0=Clear; 1=Almost clear, 2=Mild, 3=Moderate, 4=Severe 
erythema: Skin reaction erythema score, e.g., 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 

2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
dryness: Skin reaction dryness score, e.g., 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 
2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
burning: Skin reaction burning/stinging score, e.g., 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely 
perceptible), 2=moderate (distinct presence), 3-severe (marked, intense) 
erosion: Skin reaction erosion score, e.g., 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 
2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
edema: Skin reaction edema score, e.g., 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 

2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
pain: Skin reaction pain score, e.g., 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 
2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 


itching: Skin reaction itching score, e.g., 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 

2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
CMrpt: Concomitant Medication reported during this visit, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
AErpt: Adverse Event reported during this visit, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
LBtest: Laboratory Testing performed during this visit, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 


32. These recommendations are specific to this product and may not be appropriate for 
bioequivalence studies of any other product, including any other dosage form or strength of 
benzoyl peroxide or erythromycin. 


