Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Betamethasone Dipropionate; Calcipotriene Hydrate 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies 
the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative 
approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Betamethasone Dipropionate; Calcipotriene Hydrate 

Form/Route: Suspension/Topical 

Recommended studies: 3 studies 

1.&2. Type of study: Vasoconstrictor Study 
Design: Evaluate the betamethasone dipropionate component by conducting a pilot dose duration-
response study followed by the pivotal in vivo bioequivalence study. 
Strength: 0.064%; 0.005% 
Subjects: Healthy males and females 
Additional comments: Please refer to the guidance “Topical Dermatological Corticosteroids: In 
Vivo Bioequivalence” available at: 
http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/ucm 
070234.pdf. 

3. Type of study: Bioequivalence (BE) Study with Clinical Endpoint 
Design: Randomized, double blind, parallel, placebo-controlled in vivo 
Strength: 0.064%; 0.005% 
Subjects: Healthy males and females with clinical diagnosis of scalp psoriasis 
Additional comments: Specific recommendations are provided below. 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Not Applicable 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Vasoconstrictor assay studies (pilot dose duration-response study 
followed by the pivotal in vivo bioequivalence study); Clinical endpoint (study #3) 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: Not Applicable 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: Not Applicable 

Additional comments regarding the BE study with clinical endpoint: 

1. The Office of Generic Drugs (OGD) recommends conducting a bioequivalence study with a 
clinical endpoint in the treatment of stable scalp psoriasis comparing the test product versus the 
reference listed drug (RLD) and vehicle control, each applied once daily to the affected area(s) of 
the scalp for 4 weeks. The two co-primary endpoints are the proportions of subjects with 
treatment success on the Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) and clinical success on the 
Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI) scale at the target lesion site at the end of treatment (study 
week 4). 



2. A vehicle (placebo) control arm is recommended to demonstrate that the test product and RLD 
are active and as a parameter to establish that the study is sufficiently sensitive to detect 
differences between products at the lower end of the dose/response curve. 
3. Inclusion Criteria (the sponsor may add additional criteria) 
a. Male or nonpregnant females aged at least 18 years with a clinical diagnosis of stable (at least 
6 months) scalp psoriasis involving at least 10% of the scalp and clinical signs of psoriasis 
vulgaris on trunk and/or limbs. 
b. A PGA of disease severity of the scalp psoriasis consistent with at least moderate disease 
severity (grade = 3, per Table 1). 
c. A plaque elevation of at least moderate severity (grade = 3, per Table 2) at the scalp target 
lesion site. The most severe scalp lesion at baseline should be identified as the target lesion. 




4. Exclusion Criteria (the sponsor may add additional criteria) 
a. Females who are pregnant, breast feeding, or planning a pregnancy. 
b. Females of childbearing potential who do not agree to utilize an adequate form of 
contraception. 
c. Current diagnosis of unstable forms of psoriasis including guttate, erythrodermic, exfoliative 
or pustular psoriasis. 
d. Other inflammatory skin disease in the scalp that may confound the evaluation of the scalp 
psoriasis (e.g., atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, tinea capitis). 
e. Presence of pigmentation, extensive scarring, pigmented lesions or sunburn in the scalp, 
which could interfere with the rating of efficacy parameters. 
f. History of psoriasis unresponsive to topical treatments. 
g. History of hypersensitivity to any component of the test product or RLD. 
h. Current or past history of hypercalcemia, vitamin D toxicity, severe renal insufficiency, or 
severe hepatic disorders. 
i. Current immunosuppression. 
j. Use within six months prior to baseline of biologic treatment for psoriasis (e.g., infliximab, 
adalimumab, alefacept). 
k. Use within three months prior to baseline of: 1) chemotherapy, or 2) radiation therapy. 
l. Use within two months prior to baseline of: 1) immunosuppressive drugs (e.g., tacrolimus, 
pimecrolimus), or 2) oral retinoids. 
m. Use within one month prior to baseline of: 1) systemic steroids, 2) systemic antibiotics, 3) 
other systemic antipsoriatic treatment, 4) PUVA therapy, 5) UVB therapy, or 6) systemic 
anti-inflammatory agents. 
n. Use within 2 weeks prior to baseline of: 1) topical anti-psoriatic drugs (e.g., salicylic acid, 
anthralin, coal tar, calcipotriene, tazarotene), 2) topical corticosteroids, or 3) topical retinoids. 




5. Scales to be used for evaluation of baseline disease severity and treatment effect: 


Table 1. Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) of Disease Severity 

Score Grade Definition 
0 None No plaque elevation above normal skin level; may have residual non-erythematous 
discoloration; no psoriatic scale; no erythema 
1 Minimal Essentially flat with possible trace elevation; faint erythema; no psoriatic scale 
2 Mild Slight but definite elevation of plaque above normal skin level; may have up to 
moderate erythema (red coloration); fine scales with some lesions partially covered 


Score Grade Definition 
3 Moderate Moderate elevation with rounded or sloped edges to plaque; moderate erythema (red 
coloration); somewhat coarse scales with most lesions partially covered 
4 Severe Marked elevation with hard, sharp edges to plaque; severe erythema (very red 
coloration); coarse, thick scales with virtually all lesions covered and a rough surface 
5 Very 
Severe 
Very marked elevation with very hard, sharp edges to plaque; very severe erythema 
(extreme red coloration); very coarse, thick scales with all lesions covered and a very 
rough surface 

Table 2. Severity of Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI) at the Target Lesion Site 

Score Grade Erythema Scaling Plaque Elevation 
0 Clear No evidence of No evidence of scaling No evidence of plaques above 
erythema normal skin level 
1 Almost Pink discoloration, Occasional fine scales hardly Slight, just discernable elevation 
Clear minimal erythema noticeable above normal skin level 
2 Mild Light red 
coloration 
Slight but definite roughness, 
fine scale present, no 
cracking 
Discernable elevation above 
normal skin level upon 
examination, but not pronounced 
3 Moderate Moderate redness, Moderate roughness, Definite plaque formation with 
but not dark somewhat coarse scaling rounded/sloped edges to plaque 
4 Severe Dark red 
coloration 
Marked roughness, 
coarse/thick scaling, cracking 
may be evident. 
Marked elevation with hard, 
distinct edges to plaque 
5 Very 
Severe 
Very dark red 
coloration with 
induration present 
Very thick scales covering 
extensive area, severe 
cracking/fissures may be 
evident 
Very marked elevation, very 
hard and sharp edges to plaque 

6. Body Surface Area (BSA) percentage and distribution, as well as the scalp surface area affected 
with psoriasis, should be recorded at baseline. 
7. The protocol should include a list of the prescription and over-the-counter drug products, 
procedures, and activities that are prohibited during the study, such as: 
a. Topical product other than the assigned treatment (including moisturizers, new brands of 
make-up, creams, ointments, lotions, and powders) applied on or near the treatment area. 
b. Topical or systemic antipsoriatic treatment (e.g., anthralin, coal tar, tazarotene, retinoids, 
tacalcitol, infliximab, adalimumab, alefacept, PUVA therapy, UVB therapy). 
c. Topical or systemic corticosteroids. 
d. Immunosuppressive drugs. 
e. Calcium supplements. 
f. More than 400 IU/day of Vitamin D or vitamin D analogs. 
g. Initiation of or changes to non antipsoriatic concomitant medication that could affect 
psoriasis (e.g., beta blockers, lithium) during the study. 
h. Tanning booths, sun lamps, or nonprescription UV light sources. 
i. Phototherapy. 
j. The treated areas should not be bandaged, covered or wrapped as to be occlusive. 
k. The maximum weekly dose should not exceed 100 g. 
l. Subjects should be instructed to shake the study treatment prior to use, to not apply study 
treatment anywhere other than the scalp, to avoid contact with the face or eyes, to not 







swallow the study treatment, to not use study treatment if skin atrophy is present at the 
treatment site, to minimize exposure to natural or artificial sunlight, and to always wash 
hands thoroughly after use. 

8. Due to the possibility of elevated serum calcium levels with calcipotriene absorption, serum 
calcium, serum albumin and albumin-corrected serum calcium levels should be included in serum 
chemistry analysis. Subjects with elevation in serum calcium outside the normal range should be 
discontinued from the study. The serum calcium level should be corrected for serum albumin 
level as follows: 
“corrected” serum calcium=serum calcium mg/dL + (0.8 x[4.0-albumin g/dL]) 


9. Calcium levels of subjects in study treatment groups should be evaluated to ensure similar effects 
are seen with both active treatments. The number of subjects with elevated serum calcium levels 
and the mean albumin corrected calcium levels at baseline and at week 4 should also be compared 
in all study treatment groups. 
10. The recommended co-primary endpoints are: 
a. the proportion of subjects in each treatment group with treatment success [defined as absent 
or very mild disease, a score of 0 or 1, within the treatment area(s)] on the PGA of disease 
severity at the week 4 visit, and 
b. the proportion of subjects in each treatment group with clinical success (defined as absent or 
mild, a score of 0 or 1, at the target lesion site) on the PASI at the week 4 visit. Each psoriatic 
sign of scaling, erythema, and plaque elevation should have a score of 0 or 1 at week 4 for the 
subject to be considered a success. The target lesion is to be identified at baseline as the most 
severe lesion. 




11. The protocol should clearly define the per-protocol (PP), modified intent-to-treat (mITT) and 
safety populations. 
a. The accepted PP population used for bioequivalence evaluation includes all randomized 
subjects who meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria, apply a pre-specified proportion of the 
scheduled applications (e.g., 75% to 125%) of the assigned product for the specified duration 
of the study, do not miss the scheduled applications for more than 3 consecutive days, and 
complete the evaluation within the designated visit window (+/- 4 days) with no protocol 
violations that would affect the treatment evaluation. The protocol should specify how 
compliance will be verified, e.g., by the use of subject diaries. 
b. The mITT population includes all randomized subjects who meet all inclusion/exclusion 
criteria, apply at least one dose of assigned product and return for at least one post-baseline 
evaluation visit. 
c. The safety population includes all randomized subjects who receive study product. 




12. Subjects whose condition worsens and require alternate or supplemental therapy for the treatment 
of their psoriasis vulgaris of the scalp during the study should be discontinued, included in the PP 
population analysis, and provided with effective treatment. Subjects discontinued early for other 
reasons should be excluded from the PP population, but included in the mITT population, using 
Last Observation Carried Forward (LOCF). 
13. The start and stop date of concomitant medication use during the study should be provided in the 
data set in addition to the reason for the medication use. The sponsor should clearly explain 
whether the medication was used prior to baseline visit, during the study, or both. 



14. All adverse events (AEs) should be reported, whether or not they are considered to be related to 
the treatment. The report of AEs should include date of onset, description of the AE, severity, 
relation to study medication, action taken, outcome and date of resolution. This information is 
needed to determine whether the incidence and severity of adverse reactions is different between 
the test product and RLD. 
15. Application site reactions such as erythema, dryness, burning/stinging, erosion, edema, pain and 
itching are to be recorded at each visit to allow a comparison between treatment groups. A 
descriptive analysis comparing the application site reactions for each treatment group is 
recommended. It is important to ensure that the test product is not worse than the reference 
product with regard to these expected application site reactions. 
16. If the inactive ingredients of the test product are different than those contained in the RLD or in 
significantly different amounts, then the sponsor must clearly describe the differences and 
provide information to show that the differences will not affect the safety, efficacy and/or 
systemic or local availability of the drug. Due to the possibility of hypercalcemia from systemic 
calcipotriene absorption, the data should demonstrate that those changes in inactive ingredients in 
the formulation will result in no greater systemic absorption of calcipotriene with the use of the 
test product than with use of the RLD. 
17. The method of randomization should be described in the protocol. It is recommended that an 
independent third party generate and hold the randomization code throughout the conduct of the 
study in order to minimize bias. The sponsor may generate the randomization code if not involved 
in the packaging and labeling of the study medication. A sealed copy of the randomization 
scheme should be retained at the study site and should be available to FDA investigators at the 
time of site inspection to allow for verification of the treatment identity of each subject. 
18. A detailed description of the blinding procedure is to be provided in the protocol. The packaging 
of the test, reference and placebo products should be similar in appearance to make differences in 
treatment less obvious to the subjects and to maintain adequate blinding of evaluators. When 
possible, neither the subject nor the investigator should be able to identify the treatment. The 
containers should not be opened by the subject at the study center. 
19. Please refer to 21 CFR 320.38, 320.63 and the Guidance for Industry, “Handling and Retention of 
BA and BE Testing Samples”, regarding retention of study drug samples and 21 CFR 320.36 for 
requirements for maintenance of records of bioequivalence testing. In addition, the investigators 
should follow the procedures of 21 CFR 58 and ICH E6, “Good Clinical Practice: Consolidated 
Guideline”, for retention of study records and data in order to conduct their studies in compliance 
with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) and Good Clinical Practices (GCP). Retention samples 
should be randomly selected from the drug supplies received prior to dispensing to subjects. 
Retention samples should not be returned to the sponsor at any time. 
20. It is the sponsor's responsibility to enroll sufficient subjects for the study to demonstrate 
bioequivalence between the products. 
21. To establish bioequivalence, the 90% confidence interval of the test - reference difference 
between products for both co-primary endpoints (success proportion) must be contained within 
[-0.20, +0.20] for dichotomous variables (success versus failure), using the PP population. 



22. As a parameter for determining adequate study sensitivity, the test product and RLD should be 
statistically superior to placebo (p<0.05, two-sided) for both co-primary endpoints (success 
proportion) using the mITT study population and LOCF. 
23. The site and size of the treatment area should be compared and tabulated for each treatment 
group. 
24. The following Statistical Analysis Method is recommended for equivalence testing for a 
dichotomous variable (success/failure): 


Equivalence Analysis 

Based on the usual method used in OGD for binary outcomes, the 90% confidence interval for the 
difference in success proportions between test and reference treatment must be contained within 
[-0.20, +0.20] in order to establish equivalence. 

The compound hypothesis to be tested is: 

H0: pT -pR < -0.20 or pT -pR > 0.20 

versus 

HA: -0.20 = pT -pR = 0.20 

where pT = success rate of test treatment and pR = success rate of reference treatment. 

Let 
nT = sample size of test treatment group 


c nT = number of successes in test treatment group 

nR = sample size of reference treatment group 

c nR = number of successes in reference treatment group 

^^

p = c nT / nT , p = c nR / nR ,

TR 

^^ ^^ 

and se = ( p (1 -p )/ nT + p (1 -p )/ nR ) ½. 

TT RR 

The 90% confidence interval for the difference in success proportions between test and reference 
should be calculated as follows, using Yates’ correction: 

^^ 

L = ( p -p ) – 1.645 se – (1/ nT + 1/ nR )/2

TR 

^^ 

U = ( p -p ) + 1.645 se + (1/ nT + 1/ nR )/2

TR 


We reject H0 if L = -0.20 and U = 0.20 

Rejection of the null hypothesis H0 supports the conclusion of equivalence of the two products. 

25. Study data should be submitted to the OGD in electronic format. 

a. A list of file names, with a simple description of the content of each file, should be included. 
Such a list should include an explanation of the variables included in each of the data sets. 
b. Provide a “pdf” document with a detailed description of the codes that are used for each 
variable in each of the SAS datasets (for example, Y=yes, N=no for analysis population). 
c. All SAS transport files, covering all variables collected in the Case Report Forms (CRFs) per 
subject, should include .xpt as the file extension and should not be compressed. A simple 
SAS program to open the data transport files and SAS files should be included. 
d. Primary data sets should consist of two data sets: No Last Observation Carried Forward (NOLOCF-
pure data set) and Last Observation Carried Forward (LOCF-modified data set). 
e. Please provide a separate dataset for variables such as demographics, vital signs, adverse 
events, disposition (including reason for discontinuation of treatment), concomitant 
medications, medical history, compliance and comments, etc. 


26. Please provide a summary dataset containing a separate line listing for each subject (if data exist) 
using the following headings, if applicable: 

a. Study identifier 
b. Subject identifier 
c. Site identifier: study center 
d. Age 
e. Age units (years) 
f. Sex 
g. Race 
h. Name of Actual Treatment (exposure): test product, RLD, vehicle control 
i. Location of Treatment Area (e.g., scalp) 
j. Duration of Treatment (total exposure in days) 
k. Size of Treatment Area (e.g., cm2) 
l. Previous use of antipsoriatic treatment (yes/no) 
m. Completed the study (yes/no) 
n. Reason for premature discontinuation of subject 
o. Subject required additional treatment for scalp psoriasis due to unsatisfactory treatment 
response (yes/no) 
p. Per Protocol (PP) population inclusion (yes/no) 
q. Reason for exclusion from PP population 
r. Modified Intent to Treat (mITT) population inclusion (yes/no) 
s. Reason for exclusion from mITT population 
t. Safety population inclusion (yes/no) 
u. Reason for exclusion from Safety population 
v. Percent (%) Body Surface Area (BSA) involvement at baseline 
w. PGA score at baseline and at week 4 
x. Severity of total PASI score at baseline and at week 4 
y. Individual PASI component score for erythema, scaling, and plaque elevation at baseline and 
at week 4 
z. Albumin corrected calcium level at baseline and at week 4 
aa. Final designation of outcome (success/failure) on PGA 
bb. Final designation of outcome (success/failure)on PASI 


cc. Treatment compliance: number of missed doses per subject 


dd. Concomitant medication (yes/no) 
ee. Adverse event(s) reported (yes/no) 


Please refer to Table 3 as an example. This sample table may contain additional information not 
applicable to your study and/or it may not contain all information applicable to your study. 

Table 3: Example of a summary dataset containing one line listing for each subject 

STUDYID 
SUBJIDSITEIDAGEAGEU 
SEXRACEEXTRTEXLOC 
EXDUR 
size_txprev_pscompletddisc_rsadd_trtpppp_rsmittmitt_rs 
101 1 01 54 YEARS F 1 A S 14 Y N Y Y 
101 2 01 58 YEARS F 1 B S 14 Y N Y Y 

safetysafety_rsbsa_bpga_bpga_4pasi_bpasi_4eyth_beyth_4scale_bscale_4plaque_bplaque_4alcalc_balcalc_4tx_outclin_outcomplianCMAE 
Y 8 3 0 3 4 3 2 2 2 3 3 0 Y Y 
Y 10 4 1 3 0 2 2 3 1 4 4 0 N N 

Note: Capitalized headings are from Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Study 
Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) Implementation Guide (IG) for Human Clinical Trials V3.1.2 Final 
dated 11/12/08. 

STUDYID: Study Identifier 

SUBJID: Subject Identifier for the Study 

SITEID: Study Site Identifier 

AGE: Age 

AGEU: Age units (years) 

SEX: Sex, e.g., M=Male, F=Female, U=Unknown 

RACE: Race, e.g., 1=White, 2=Black or African American, 3=Asian, 4=American Indian 

or Alaska Native, 5=Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islanders 

EXTRT: Name of Actual Treatment (exposure), e.g., A=test product, B= RLD, C=vehicle 

control 

EXLOC: Location of Treatment Area, e.g., S=scalp, etc. 

EXDUR: Duration of Treatment (total exposure in days) 

size_tx: Size of Treatment area (e.g., cm2) 

prev_ps: Previous use of antipsoriatic treatment , e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

completd: Subject completed the study, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

disc_rs: Reason for premature discontinuation from the study, e.g., A=adverse event, 

B=death, C=lost to follow-up, D=non-compliance with treatment, E=treatment 

unblinded, F=subject moved out of area, G=unsatisfactory treatment response, 

H=withdrew consent, I=protocol violation, K=other event 

add_trt: Subject required additional treatment for scalp psoriasis due to unsatisfactory 


treatment response, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

pp: Per Protocol (PP) population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

pp_rs: Reason for exclusion from PP population, e.g., A=prematurely discontinued, 

B=lost to follow-up, C=subject moved out of the area, D=noncompliant, etc. 

mitt: Modified Intent to Treat (mITT) population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

mitt_rs: Reason for exclusion from mITT population, e.g., A=never treated, etc. 

safety: Safety population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

safe_rs: Reason for exclusion from Safety population, e.g., A=never treated, etc. 

bsa_b: Percent (%) of Body Surface Area (BSA) involvement at baseline 

pga_b: PGA score at baseline 

pga_4: PGA score at week 4 

pasi_b: Severity of total PASI score at baseline 

pasi_4: Severity of total PASI score at week 4 

eryth_b: PASI score for Erythema at baseline 

eryth_4: PASI score for Erythema at week 4 

scale_b: PASI score for Scaling at baseline 

scale_4: PASI score for Scaling at week 4 

plaque_b: PASI score for Plaque Elevation at baseline 

plaque_4: PASI score for Plaque Elevation at week 4 

alcalc_b: Albumin adjusted serum calcium at baseline 

alcalc_4: Albumin adjusted serum calcium at week 4 

tx_out Final designation of treatment outcome (A=success, B=failure) based on PGA 

clin_out: Final designation as clinical outcome (A=success, B=failure) based on Severity 

of PASI 

complian: Treatment compliance, e.g., number of missed doses per subject 

CM: Concomitant medication, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

AE: Adverse event(s) reported, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

27. Please provide a dataset containing a separate line listing for each visit per subject (if data exist) 
using the following headers, if applicable: 

a. Study identifier 
b. Subject identifier 
c. Name of Actual Treatment (exposure): test product, RLD, vehicle control 
d. Location of Dose Administration: application site 
e. Visit number 
f. Visit date 
g. Number of days since baseline visit 
h. Evaluator: identity of evaluator 
i. PGA score 
j. Total PASI score 
k. Individual erythema PASI score 
l. Individual scaling PASI score 
m. Individual plaque elevation PASI score 
n. Skin reaction scores for each sign and symptom evaluated (e.g., erythema, dryness, 
burning/stinging, erosion, edema, pain, itching, etc.) 
o. Concomitant medication reported during this visit (yes/no) 
p. Adverse event reported during this visit (yes/no) 
q. Laboratory testing during this visit (yes/no) 
r. Serum calcium level 
s. Serum albumin level 
t. Albumin-corrected serum calcium level 



Please refer to Table 4 as an example. This sample table may contain additional information not 
applicable to your study and/or it may not contain all information applicable to your study. 

Table 4: Example of dataset containing one line listing for each visit per subject 

STUDYID 
SUBJIDEXTRTEXLOC 
VISITNUMSVSTDTCELTMBSEVALpgapasi_totpasi_erypasi_scapasi_plaerythemadrynessburning 
101 1 A S 1 2004-07-01 1 2 2 1 

erosionedemapainitchingCMrptAErptLBtestcalcalbalcalc 
1 1 1 Y Y Y N 

Note: Capitalized headings are from Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Study 
Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) Implementation Guide (IG) for Human Clinical Trials V3.1.2 Final 


dated 11/12/08. 
STUDYID: Study Identifier 
SUBJID: Subject Identifier for the Study 
EXTRT: Name of Actual Treatment (exposure), e.g., A=test product, B=RLD, C=vehicle 
control 
EXLOC: Location of Treatment Area: specific anatomical site of application, e.g., S=scalp 
etc. 
VISITNUM: Visit Sequence Number 
SVSTDTC: Visit date: (SVSTDTC=Subject Visit Start Date Time-Character) 
ELTMBL: Elapsed Time since Baseline (days) 
EVAL: Evaluator: identity of the evaluator 
pga: PGA score 
pasi_tot: Total PASI score 
pasi_ery: Individual erythema PASI score 
pasi_sca: Individual scaling PASI score 
pasi_pla: Individual plaque elevation PASI score 
erythema: Skin reaction erythema score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 
2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
dryness: Skin reaction dryness score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 
2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
burning: Skin reaction burning score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 
2=moderate (distinct presence), 3-severe (marked, intense) 
erosion: Skin reaction erosion score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 
2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
edema: Skin reaction edema score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 
2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 


pain: Skin reaction pain score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 
2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
itching: Skin reaction itching score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 

2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
CMrpt: Concomitant Medication reported during this visit, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
AErpt: Adverse Event reported during this visit, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
LBtest: Laboratory Testing performed during this visit, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
calc: Serum calcium level 
alb: Serum albumin level 
alcalc: Albumin-corrected serum calcium level 

28. These recommendations are specific to this product and may not be appropriate for 
bioequivalence studies of any other product, including any other dosage form or strength of 
betamethasone dipropionate or calcipotriene. 


