Active Ingredient: Betamethasone valerate 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Foam aerosol; topical 

 

Recommended Studies: Two options: waiver or in vivo 

 

I. Waiver Option 


 

a. To qualify for a waiver of the in vivo bioequivalence (BE) study requirements under 
21 CFR 320.22(b)(3), a generic betamethasone valerate foam aerosol/topical, 0.12% 
must be a solution for aerosolization; have the same active ingredient in the same 
concentration and dosage form as the reference listed drug product (RLD); and must 
not have an inactive ingredient or other change in formulation from the RLD that may 
significantly affect systemic or local availability. 


 

b. For a topical drug product with inactive ingredients that differ from the RLD or are 
present in significantly different amounts [as permitted by the chemistry, 
manufacturing, and controls regulations for abbreviated new drug applications 
(ANDAs), 21 CFR 314.94(a)(9)(v)], the regulation specifies that the applicant must 
identify and characterize the differences and provide information demonstrating that 
the differences do not affect the safety or efficacy of the proposed drug product. If the 
generic betamethasone valerate foam aerosol/topical, 0.12% has different inactive 
ingredients compared to the RLD or differences in the amounts of the same inactive 
ingredients that are proportionally more than +/- 5% compared to the RLD, then the 
Office of Generic Drugs (OGD) may request a bioequivalence study with clinical 
endpoints to determine bioequivalence between the products. 


 

c. For products applied to the scalp, differences in surfactants or potential penetration 
enhancers may change the distribution of the product over the scalp or penetration of 
the drug into the diseased tissues. Therefore, clinical endpoint bioequivalence studies 
are requested for generic shampoo products with differences in these ingredients that 
are proportionally more than +/- 5% compared to the RLD. 


 

d. To support the waiver request, data from the following comparative in vitro assays of 
test vs. reference are requested: 
• Microscopic Birefringence Analysis on the dispensed Aerosol, Foam after 
complete collapse to determine whether any crystals of undissolved 
betamethasone valerate form during dispensing. 






• Time to Break Analysis, conducted at 30ºC, 33ºC, 35ºC, and 40ºC. Time to break 
is the time from dispensing to complete Aerosol, Foam collapse (break). The 
testing should be done on at least 3 different lots of the RLD and at least 3 lots of 
the test product (with each lot manufactured separately). 
• Weight per volume of uncollapsed aerosol, foam. 




 

 

II. In Vivo Option: 


 

Recommended studies: 1 study 

Type of study: Clinical endpoint bioequivalence (BE) study 

Design: Randomized, double-blind, parallel, placebo-controlled in vivo 

Strength: 0.12% 

Subjects: Healthy males and females with moderate to severe corticosteroid-responsive 
scalp psoriasis 

Additional comments: FDA recommends submitting a protocol for review and comment 
prior to conducting the study. 

 

 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Not applicable (N/A) 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Clinical endpoint (in vivo option) 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: N/A 

 

 

 


