Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Betamethasone Dipropionate; Clotrimazole 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind the FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach 
satisfies the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an 
alternative approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Betamethasone Dipropionate; Clotrimazole 

Form/Route: Lotion/Topical 

Recommended studies: 3 studies 

1.&2. Type of study: Vasoconstrictor Study 
Design: Evaluate the betamethasone dipropionate component by conducting a pilot dose duration-
response study followed by the pivotal in vivo bioequivalence study. 
Strength: EQ 0.05% Base; 1% 
Subjects: Healthy males and females. 
Additional comments: Please refer to the guidance “Topical Dermatological Corticosteroids: In 
Vivo Bioequivalence” available at: 
http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/ucm 
070234.pdf. 

3. 
Type of study: Clinical Endpoint Bioequivalence (BE) Study 
Design: Evaluate the clotrimazole component of this product by conducting a randomized, double 
blind, parallel, placebo-controlled, in vivo, clinical endpoint BE study. 
Strength: EQ 0.05% Base; 1% 
Subjects: Healthy males and females with tinea pedis. 
Additional comments: Specific recommendations are provided below. 
Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Not Applicable. 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Vasoconstrictor assay studies (pilot dose duration-response study 
followed by the pivotal in vivo bioequivalence study); Clinical endpoint (study #3). 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: Not Applicable. 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: Not Applicable. 

Additional comments regarding the clinical endpoint BE study: 

1. 
The Office of Generic Drugs (OGD) recommends a clinical endpoint bioequivalence study in the 
treatment of tinea pedis. Subjects are to be randomized to receive the generic betamethasone 
dipropionate and clotrimazole topical lotion, EQ 0.05% base/1%, the reference listed drug (RLD), 
or placebo. The study drug is to be administered by gently massaging the lotion into the affected 
skin areas twice daily, in the morning and evening, for 28 consecutive days (i.e., 4 weeks). The 
primary endpoint is to be evaluated at the test-of-cure visit (study Week 6, two weeks after the 
end of treatment). 
Recommended Mar 2010 


2. 
Although all tinea pedis lesions on both feet are to be treated in this study, a target lesion on one 
foot is to be identified as the most severe lesion and evaluated at the baseline visit and at each 
study visit. Each of the following signs and symptoms should be scored using the following 
scale: 
a. 
Signs: fissuring/cracking, erythema, maceration, and scaling 
b. 
Symptoms: pruritus and burning/stinging 
c. 
Scoring Scale: Each score should be objectively defined. The following is an example of an 
acceptable scale. 
0 = none (complete absence of any signs or symptoms) 
1 = mild (slight) 
2 = moderate (definitely present) 
3 = severe (marked, intense) 


3. 
Inclusion Criteria (the sponsor may add additional criteria): 
a. 
Healthy males and females aged = 18 years. 
b. 
Clinical diagnosis of tinea pedis with lesions localized to the interdigital spaces or 
predominantly interdigital, but may extend to other areas of the foot (the non-interdigital 
lesions should not be hyperkeratotic, i.e., characteristic of tinea pedis moccasin), and 
provisionally confirmed at baseline by a positive potassium hydroxide (KOH) wet mount 
preparation (i.e., skin scrapings from the target site are placed on a microscope slide with a 
drop of 10% KOH, and microscopic examination reveals segmented fungal hyphae). 
c. 
The sum of the clinical signs and symptoms scores of the target lesion is at least 4, including a 
minimum score of at least 2 for erythema AND a minimum score of 2 for either scaling or 
pruritus (on a scale of 0-3, where 2 indicates moderate severity). 
4. 
Exclusion Criteria (the sponsor may add additional criteria): 
a. 
Pregnant or lactating or planning to become pregnant during the study period. 
b. 
Use of antipruritics, including antihistamines, within 72 hours prior to entry into the study. 
c. 
Use of topical corticosteroid, antibiotics or antifungal therapy within 2 weeks prior to entry 
into the study. 
d. 
Use of systemic (e.g., oral or injectable) corticosteroid, antibiotics or antifungal therapy 
within 1 month prior to entry into the study. 
e. 
Use of oral terbinafine or itraconazole within 2 months prior to entry into the study. 
f. 
Use of immunosuppressive medication or radiation therapy within 3 months prior to entry 
into the study. 
g. 
Confluent, diffuse moccasin-type tinea pedis of the entire plantar surface. 
h. 
Presence of any other infection of the foot or other disease process that might confound the 
treatment evaluation. 
i. 
History of dermatophyte infections unresponsive to systemic or topical antifungal drugs. 
j. 
Known hypersensitivity to clotrimazole, betamethasone dipropionate, other corticosteroids, 
imidazoles, or to any ingredients in the study drugs. 
5. 
A positive skin fungal culture at baseline should not be an inclusion criterion due to the time lag 
between obtaining the culture specimen and receiving the culture results. However, a, skin fungal 
culture must be obtained at baseline at the target site. Testing should be performed to identify the 
isolates at the species level (e.g., Trichophyton rubrum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, or 
Epidermophyton floccosum). Only subjects with a pretreatment baseline skin fungal culture from 
the target site that is positive for Trichophyton rubrum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, or 
Epidermophyton floccosum should be included in the per protocol (PP) and modified intent to 
treat (mITT) populations for the primary endpoint analysis. Subjects with a negative baseline 
Recommended Mar 2010 
2 


fungal culture should be excluded from the PP and mITT populations, but included in the safety 
population for the safety analyses. 

6. 
Trichophyton rubrum is the most common infecting organism in tinea pedis. Therefore, > 50% of 
the subjects should have fungal cultures positive for T. rubrum upon entry into the study. 
7. 
Subjects should avoid the use of occlusive wrappings or dressings over the application site. 
Subjects should avoid contact of the study drug with the eyes or the mouth, or intravaginal use. 
8. 
The protocol should include a list of the prescription and over-the-counter drug products that are 
prohibited during the study, such as: 
a. Any other topical products applied to the target site 
b. Systemic (e.g., oral or injectable) antibiotics or antifungals. 
c. Systemic corticosteroid or immunosuppressive drugs. 
d. Antipruritics, including antihistamines, within 24 hours of study visits. 
9. 
The recommended primary endpoint of the study is the proportion of subjects with therapeutic 
cure, defined as both mycological cure and clinical cure, at the test-of-cure visit conducted 2 
weeks (+/- 4 days) after the end of treatment, (study Day 38-46). Mycological cure is defined as a 
negative KOH test AND a negative fungal culture. Clinical cure is defined as a total severity score 
no more than 2 with no individual severity score greater than 1, on a 4-point scale provided 
above. 
10. The protocol should clearly define the PP, mITT and safety populations. 
11. The accepted PP population used for bioequivalence evaluation includes all randomized subjects 
who met all inclusion/exclusion criteria, had a positive baseline skin fungal culture for 
Trichophyton rubrum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, or Epidermophyton floccosum, were 
compliant with the assigned study treatment, and completed the evaluation at the test-of-cure visit 
within the designated visit window (+/- 4 days; i.e., study Day 38-46). The protocol should 
provide a definition of compliant subjects (e.g., used at least 75% and no more than 125% of 
study drug doses) and specify how compliance will be verified (e.g., by the use of subject 
diaries). 
12. The mITT population includes all randomized subjects who met the inclusion/exclusion criteria, 
had a positive baseline skin fungal culture for Trichophyton rubrum, Trichophyton 
mentagrophytes, or Epidermophyton floccosum, used at least one dose of study product, and 
returned for at least one post-baseline visit. 
13. The safety population includes all randomized subjects who received study product. 
14. Subjects who are discontinued early from the study due to lack of treatment effect after 
completing 14 days of treatment should be included in the mITT and PP population as treatment 
failures. Subjects discontinued early for other reasons should be excluded from the PP 
population, but included in the mITT population, using LOCF. 
15. Subjects who receive or self-administer topical drug therapy to the feet for the treatment of 
irritation/pruritus after the treatment phase of the study should be analyzed in the mITT and PP 
populations as a treatment failure. 
16. All adverse events (AEs) should be reported, whether or not they are considered to be related to 
the treatment. The report of AEs should include date of onset, description of the AE, severity, 
Recommended Mar 2010 
3 


relation to study medication, action taken, outcome and date of resolution. This information is 
needed to determine if the incidence and severity of adverse reactions is different between the test 
product and RLD. 

17. If the inactive ingredients are different than those contained in the RLD or in significantly 
different amounts, then the sponsor is to clearly describe the differences and provide information 
to show that the differences will not affect the safety, efficacy and/or systemic or local 
availability of the drug. 
18. The method of randomization should be described in the protocol. It is recommended that an 
independent third party generate and hold the randomization code throughout the conduct of the 
study in order to minimize bias. The sponsor may generate the randomization code if not involved 
in the packaging and labeling of the study medication. A sealed copy of the randomization 
scheme should be retained at the study site and should be available to FDA investigators at the 
time of site inspection to allow for verification of the treatment identity of each subject. 
19. A detailed description of the blinding procedure is to be provided in the protocol. The packaging 
of the test, reference and placebo products should be similar in appearance to make differences in 
treatment less obvious to the subjects and to maintain adequate blinding of evaluators. When 
possible, neither the subject nor the investigator should be able to identify the treatment. The 
containers should not be opened by the subject at the study center. 
20. Please refer to 21 CFR 320.38, 320.63 and the Guidance for Industry, “Handling and Retention of 
BA and BE Testing Samples”, regarding retention of study drug samples and 21 CFR 320.36 for 
requirements for maintenance of records of bioequivalence testing. In addition, the investigators 
should follow the procedures of 21 CFR 58 and ICH E6, “Good Clinical Practice: Consolidated 
Guideline”, for retention of study records and data in order to conduct their studies in compliance 
with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) and Good Clinical Practices (GCP). Retention samples 
should be randomly selected from the drug supplies received prior to dispensing to subjects. 
Retention samples should not be returned to the sponsor at any time. 
21. It is the sponsor's responsibility to enroll sufficient subjects for the study to demonstrate 
bioequivalence between the products. 
22. To establish bioequivalence, the 90% confidence interval of the difference in therapeutic cure 
rates between the test product and RLD treatment groups at the test-of-cure visit (study Day 3846) 
must be within [-0.20, +0.20] for dichotomous variables (cure versus failure), using the PP 
population. 
23. As a parameter for determining adequate study sensitivity, the test product and RLD should both 
be statistically superior to placebo (p<0.05) with regard to the therapeutic cure rate at the test-ofcure 
visit (study Day 38-46), using the mITT study population and Last Observation Carried 
Forward (LOCF). 
24. The following Statistical Analysis Method is recommended for equivalence testing for a 
dichotomous variable (success/failure): 
Equivalence Analysis 

Based on the usual method used in OGD for binary outcomes, the 90% confidence interval 
for the difference in success proportions between test and reference treatment must be 
contained within [-0.20, +0.20] in order to establish equivalence. 

Recommended Mar 2010 4 


The compound hypothesis to be tested is: 

H0: pT -pR < -0.20 or pT -pR > 0.20 
versus 
HA: -0.20 = 
pT -pR = 0.20 

where pT = cure rate of test treatment and pR = cure rate of reference treatment. 

Let 
nT = sample size of test treatment group 
c nT = number of cured subjects in test treatment group 
nR = sample size of reference treatment group 
c nR = number of cured subjects in reference treatment group 

^ 
^

p 
= c nT / nT , p = c nR / nR ,

T 
R 

^^ ^^ 

and se = ( p (1 -p )/ nT + p (1 -p )/ nR ) ½. 

TT RR 

The 90% confidence interval for the difference in proportions between test and reference was 
calculated as follows, using Yates’ correction: 

^^ 

L = ( p -p ) – 1.645 se – (1/ nT + 1/ nR )/2

TR 

^^ 

U = ( p -p ) + 1.645 se + (1/ nT + 1/ nR )/2

TR 

We reject H0 if L = -0.20 and U = 0.20 

Rejection of the null hypothesis H0 supports the conclusion of equivalence of the two products. 

25. Study data should be submitted to the OGD in electronic format. 
a. 
A list of file names, with a simple description of the content of each file, should be included. 
b. 
Please provide a “pdf” document with a detailed description of the codes that are used for 
each variable in each of the SAS datasets (for example, Y=yes, N=no for analysis 
population). 
c. 
All SAS transport files should include .xpt as the file extension and should not be 
compressed. A simple SAS program to open the data transport files and SAS files should be 
included. 
d. 
Primary data sets should consist of two data sets: No Last Observation Carried Forward (NOLOCF-
pure data set) and Last Observation Carried Forward (LOCF-modified data set). 
Recommended Mar 2010 
5 


e. 
Please provide a separate dataset for variables such as demographics, baseline admission 
criteria, baseline vital signs, adverse events, reasons for discontinuation of treatment, 
concomitant medications, medical history, compliance and comments, etc. 
26. Please provide a summary dataset containing a separate line listing for each subject (if data exist) 
using the following headings, if applicable: 
a. Study identifier 
b. Subject identifier 
c. Site identifier: study center 
d. Age 
e. Age units (years) 
f. Sex 
g. Race 
h. Name of Actual Treatment (exposure): test product, RLD, placebo 
i. Duration of Treatment (total exposure in days) 
j. Per Protocol (PP) population inclusion (yes/no) 
k. Reason for exclusion from PP population 
l. Modified Intent to Treat (mITT) population inclusion (yes/no) 
m. Reason for exclusion from mITT population 
n. Safety population inclusion (yes/no) 
o. Reason for exclusion from safety population 
p. Final designation as therapeutic cure (yes/no) 
q. Treatment compliance: number of missed doses per subject 
r. Concomitant medication (yes/no) 
s. Adverse event(s) reported (yes/no) 
Please refer to Table 1 as an example. This sample table may contain additional information not 
applicable to your study and/or it may not contain all information applicable to your study. 

Table 1: Example of a summary dataset containing one line listing for each subject 

STUDYID 
SUBJIDSITEIDAGEAGEUSEXRACEEXTRTEXDUR 
pppp_rsmittmitt_rs 
safetysafe_rscurecomplianCMAE101 1 01 22 YEARS F 1 A 28 Y Y Y N 0 Y Y 
101 2 01 30 YEARS F 1 B 28 Y Y Y Y 0 N N 

Note: Capitalized headings are from Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Study 
Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) Implementation Guide (IG) for Human Clinical Trials V3.1.2 Final 
dated 11/12/08. 

STUDYID: Study Identifier 

SUBJID: Subject Identifier for the Study 

SITEID: Study Site Identifier 

AGE: Age 

AGEU: Age units (years) 

SEX: Sex, e.g., M=Male, F=Female, U=Unknown 

RACE: Race, e.g., 1=White, 2=Black or African American, 3=Asian, 4=American Indian 

or Alaska Native, 5=Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islanders 

EXTRT: Name of Actual Treatment (exposure), e.g., A=test product, B= RLD, C=placebo 

Recommended Mar 2010 
6 


EXDUR: Duration of Treatment (total exposure in days) 
pp: Per Protocol (PP) population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
pp_rs: Reason for exclusion from PP population, e.g., A=prematurely discontinued, 


B=lost to follow-up, C=subject moved out of the area, D=noncompliant, etc. 
mitt: Modified Intent to Treat (mITT) population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
mitt_rs: Reason for exclusion from mITT population, e.g., A=never treated, B=negative 

baseline culture, etc. 
safety: Safety population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
safe_rs: Reason for exclusion from Safety population, e.g., A=never treated, etc. 
cure: Final designation e.g., Y=Yes (therapeutic cure), N=No (failure) 
complian: Treatment compliance, e.g., number of missed doses per subject 
CM: Concomitant medication, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
AE: Adverse event(s) reported, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

27. Please provide a dataset containing a separate line listing for each visit per subject (if data exist) 
using the following headers, if applicable: 
a. Study identifier 
b. Subject identifier 
c. Name of Actual Treatment (exposure): test product, RLD, placebo control 
d. Visit number 
e. Visit date 
f. Number of days since baseline visit 
g. Evaluator: identity of evaluator 
h. Fissuring/Cracking score 
i. Erythema score 
j. Maceration score 
k. Scaling score 
l. Pruritus score 
m. Burning/Stinging score 
n. Composite (total) signs and symptoms score 
o. KOH result 
p. Culture result 
q. Mycological cure (yes/no) 
r. Clinical cure (yes/no) 
s. Therapeutic cure (yes/no) 
t. Concomitant medication reported during this visit (yes/no) 
u. Adverse event reported during this visit (yes/no) 
v. Laboratory testing during this visit (yes/no) 
Please refer to Table 2 as an example. This sample table may contain additional information not 
applicable to your study and/or it may not contain all information applicable to your study. 

Table 2: Example of dataset containing one line listing for each visit per subject 

STUDYID 
SUBJIDEXTRTVISITNUMSVSTDTCELTMBSEVALfisscracerythema 
macerati 
scalingpruritusburnstincompsskohculturemycocureclincurethercureCMrptAErptLBtest 
101 1 A 1 2004-07-01 0 JB 0 2 1 2 0 0 5 PosPos Y N Y 

Recommended Mar 2010 7 


Note: Capitalized headings are from Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Study 
Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) Implementation Guide (IG) for Human Clinical Trials V3.1.2 Final 


dated 11/12/08. 

STUDYID: Study Identifier 
SUBJID: Subject Identifier for the Study 
EXTRT: Name of Actual Treatment (exposure), e.g., A=test product, B=RLD, C= placebo 

control 
VISITNUM: Visit Sequence Number 
SVSTDTC: Visit date: (SVSTDTC=Subject Visit Start Date Time-Character) 
ELTMBL: Elapsed Time since Baseline (days) 
EVAL: Evaluator: identity of the evaluator, e.g., initials 
fisscrac: Fissuring/Cracking score, e.g., 0=none (complete absence), 1=mild (slight), 

2=moderate (definitely present), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
erythema: Erythema score, e.g., 0=none (complete absence), 1=mild (slight), 2=moderate 
(definitely present), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
macerati: Maceration score, e.g., 0=none (complete absence), 1=mild (slight), 2=moderate 
(definitely present), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
scaling: Scaling score, e.g., 0=none (complete absence), 1=mild (slight), 2=moderate 
(definitely present), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
pruritus: Pruritus score, e.g., 0=none (complete absence), 1=mild (slight), 2=moderate 
(definitely present), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
burnstin: Burning/Stinging score, e.g., 0=none (complete absence, 1=mild (slight), 

2=moderate (definitely present), 3=severe (marked, intense) 
compss: Composite (total) signs and symptoms score 
koh: KOH, e.g., Pos=Positive, Neg=Negative 
culture: Culture, e.g., Pos=Positive for Candida species, Neg=Negative for Candida 

species 
mycocure: Mycological cure, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
clincure: Clinical cure, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
thercure: Therapeutic cure, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
CMrpt: Concomitant Medication reported during this visit, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
AErpt: Adverse Event reported during this visit, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 
LBtest: Laboratory Testing performed during this visit, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

28. These recommendations are specific to this product and may not be appropriate for 
bioequivalence studies of any other product, including any other dosage form or strength of 
betamethasone dipropionate and clotrimazole. 
Recommended Mar 2010 8 


