 

Active Ingredient: Bosutinib monohydrate 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Tablet; oral 

 

Recommended Studies: Two studies 

 

1. Type of study: Fasting 


Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover, in vivo 

Strength: Eq. 100 mg base 

Subjects: Healthy males and non-pregnant females, general population 

Additional comments: 1) Females should practice abstention or contraception during the 
study. 2) Investigators should refer to the FDA-approved labeling and apply appropriate 
screening and monitoring recommendations for changes in the liver function tests and 
blood counts along with other relevant recommendations described in the product’s 
package insert. 3) Bioequivalence (BE) study protocols should include provisions for 
adequate treatment and discontinuation of subjects from the study upon development of 
hypersensitivity or other adverse reactions, as appropriate. 

 

 

2. Type of study: Fed 


Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover, in vivo 

Strength: Eq. 100 mg base 

Subjects: Healthy males and non-pregnant females, general population 

Additional comments: Same as above 

 

 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Bosutinib in plasma 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Bosutinib 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: Eq. 500 mg bosutinib (base) tablet, based on (i) acceptable 
bioequivalence studies on the Eq. 100 mg (base) strength, (ii) acceptable in vitro dissolution 
testing of all strengths, and (iii) proportional similarity of the formulations across all strengths. 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: The dissolution information for this drug product 
can be found on the FDA-Recommended Dissolution Methods website available to the public at 
the following location: http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Conduct 
comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference 


products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the abbreviated new drug application 
(ANDA). 

 


