 

Active Ingredient: Budesonide 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Powder; inhalation 

 

Strength: 0.09 mg/INH 

 0.180 mg/INH 

 

Recommended Studies: In vitro and in vivo studies 

 

FDA recommends the following in vitro and in vivo studies to establish bioequivalence (BE) of 
the test (T) and reference (R) dry powder inhalers (DPIs) containing budesonide. 

 

 

In Vitro Studies 

 

FDA recommends that applicants conduct the following in vitro studies for both strengths of the 
T and R products. For each strength, use at least three batches each of the T and R products, with 
no fewer than 10 units from each batch. The three batches of T product should be manufactured 
from, at minimum, three different batches of drug substance(s), excipient(s), and 
container/closure system. 

 

1. Type of study: Single actuation content (SAC) 


Design: The SAC test should be performed at the beginning (B), middle (M), and end (E) 
lifestages1 of the product, using a flow rate of 30 L/min, 60 L/min and 90 L/min. U.S. 
Pharmacopoeia (USP) <601> Apparatus B or another appropriate apparatus may be used 
to determine the SAC using a validated assay. The number of actuations per 
determination should be one. The volume of air drawn through the delivery system 
should be 2 L. 

1 Based on the labeled number of actuations, the terms, B lifestage, M lifestage, and E lifestage represent the first 
actuation(s) following the priming, the actuation(s) corresponding to 50 percent of the labeled number of 
actuations, and the actuation(s) corresponding to the labeled number of actuations, respectively. 

2 http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/UCM319977.pdf 

 

Equivalence based on: Population bioequivalence (PBE) analysis of SAC. Please refer 
to the draft Budesonide Inhalation Suspension BE Guidance for additional information 
regarding PBE.2 

 

2. Type of study: Aerodynamic particle size distribution (APSD) 



Design: The APSD test should be performed at the B and E lifestages of the product 
using flow rates of 28.3 L/min or 30 L/min, 60 L/min and 90 L/min. The USP <601> 
Apparatus 3, Apparatus 5, or another appropriate method may be used to determine 
APSD using a validated assay. The APSD determination of each unit should be 
performed with a minimum number of inhalations justified by the sensitivity of the 
validated assay. The volume of air drawn through the delivery system should be 4 L. 

Additional comments: Drug deposition on individual sites, including the mouthpiece 
adapter, the induction port, the pre-separator, and each stage of the cascade impactor (CI) 
and the filter, is requested. Mass balance accountability should be reported based on the 
sum of all deposition sites. For electronic submission of the individual CI data for the T 
and R products, provide a table using the format in the appendix, and send them as part of 
the abbreviated new drug application (ANDA) submission for BE evaluation. 

 

Equivalence based on: PBE analysis of impactor-sized mass (ISM).3 The CI profiles 
representing drug deposition on the individual stages of the CI along with the mass 
median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD), geometric standard deviation (GSD) and fine 
particle mass (FPM) should be submitted as supportive evidence for equivalent APSD. 

3 ISM is defined as a sum of the drug mass on all stages of the CI plus the terminal filter, but excluding the top CI 
stage because of its lack of a specified upper cutoff size limit. 

______________________________________________________________________________ 

 

Pharmacokinetic Study 

 

FDA recommends that applicants conduct the following pharmacokinetic (PK) BE study for both 
strengths of the T and R products. 

 

3. Type of study: Fasting 


Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover 

Dose: Minimum number of inhalations that is sufficient to characterize a PK profile by 
using a sensitive analytical method 

Subjects: Normal healthy males and non-pregnant females, general population 

Additional comments: (1) Subjects enrolled for in vivo studies should be trained in the 
use of the inhalation powders in a standard fashion, prior to each treatment session, to 
assure a relatively consistent inspiratory flow rate and inspiratory duration. (2) The 
subjects should adhere to labeling as follows: “Rinse your mouth with water and spit the 
water out after each dose. Do not swallow the water.” (3) A Bio-IND is required prior to 
conduct of the PK study if the dose exceeds the maximum labeled single dose. 

 

Analyte(s) to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Budesonide in plasma 

 

Equivalence based on: AUC and Cmax for budesonide. The 90% confidence intervals for 
the geometric mean T/R ratios of AUC and Cmax should fall within the limits of 80.00-
125.00%. 

 

 

Comparative Clinical Endpoint Study 


 

FDA recommends that applicants conduct the following comparative clinical endpoint BE study 
for the lowest strength of the T and R products. 

 

4. Type of study: Comparative clinical endpoint BE study 

Design: A randomized, multiple-dose, placebo-controlled, parallel group design, at 
minimum consisting of a 2-week run-in period followed by a 4-week treatment period of 
the placebo, T or R product 

Strength: 0.09 mg/INH (budesonide) 

Dose: 0.09 mg/INH, four inhalations twice daily 

Inclusion and exclusion criteria: 

Inclusion criteria should, at minimum, include: 

a. Adult male or female subjects of non-childbearing potential, or of childbearing 
potential committing to consistent and correct use of an acceptable method of birth 
control 
b. Diagnosis of asthma as defined by the National Asthma Education and Prevention 
Program (NAEPP)4 at least 12 weeks prior to screening 
c. Pre-bronchodilator FEV1 of = 45% and = 85% of predicted value during the screening 
visit and on the first day of treatment 
d. = 12% and 0.20 L reversibility of FEV1 within 30 minutes following 360 mcg of 
salbutamol/albuterol inhalation (pMDI) 
e. Patients should be stable on their chronic asthma treatment regimen for at least 4 
weeks prior to screening 
f. Currently non-smoking; having not used tobacco products (i.e., cigarettes, cigars, 
pipe tobacco) within the past year, and having had = 10 pack-years of historical use 
g. Ability to replace current short-acting ß-agonist (SABA) with salbutamol/albuterol 
inhaler for use as needed for the duration of the study. Subjects should be able to 
withhold all inhaled SABAs for at least 6 hours prior to lung function assessments on 
study visits 
h. Ability to discontinue their asthma medications (inhaled corticosteroids and long-
acting ß-agonists) during the run-in period and for remainder of the study 
i. Willingness to give their written informed consent to participate in the study 


4 Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Asthma: Expert Panel Report 3. National Education and Prevention 
Program; National Institute of Health; National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. 2007, Publication No. 07-4051. 

 

Exclusion criteria should, at minimum, include: 

a. Life-threatening asthma, defined as a history of asthma episode(s) requiring 
intubation, and/or associated with hypercapnia, respiratory arrest or hypoxic seizures, 
asthma related syncopal episode(s), or hospitalizations within the past year prior to 
the screening or during the run-in period 
b. Significant respiratory disease other than asthma (COPD, interstitial lung disease, 
etc.) 
c. Evidence or history of clinically significant disease or abnormality including 
congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension, uncontrolled coronary artery 
disease, myocardial infarction, or cardiac dysrhythmia. In addition, historical or 
current evidence of significant hematologic, hepatic, neurologic, psychiatric, renal, or 



other diseases that, in the opinion of the investigator, would put the patient at risk 
through study participation, or would affect the study analyses if the disease 
exacerbates during the study 
d. Viral or bacterial, fungal or parasitic, upper or lower respiratory tract infection, or 
sinus, or middle ear infection within 4 weeks prior to the screening, during the run-in 
period, or on the day of treatment 
e. Hypersensitivity to any sympathomimetic drug (e.g., albuterol), or to any inhaled, 
intranasal, or systemic corticosteroid therapy, or to milk proteins, or to excipients in 
the DPI 
f. Patients receiving systemic, oral, parenteral or depot corticosteroids, or Anti-IgE 
therapy, or other immunosuppressive medications within 12 weeks prior to screening 
and during the study 
g. Patients receiving ß2-blockers, anti-arrhythmics, and cytochrome P450 3A4 
inhibitors, within 4 weeks prior to the screening 


 

Additional recommendations: 

 

• The study may enroll all asthma patients who meet the inclusion and exclusion 
criteria, or may be enriched by using a subpopulation of patients predicted to respond 
well to the study treatment (appropriate justification should be included for the 
population chosen for study). 
• A clear list of permitted and restricted medications should be provided, including 
justification for use (or restriction) of certain classes of respiratory therapies, that 
considers the current standard of care for asthma. 
• Subjects who discontinue from the study early should be identified, and the protocol 
should clearly, prospectively state how missing data will be handled in the statistical 
analysis and provide appropriate justification for the method chosen. The protocol 
should also include subject retention strategies and other plans to minimize missing 
data. 
• All spirometry should be conducted in accordance with American Thoracic Society 
Standards. 
• The study should begin with a placebo run-in period at least 2 weeks in duration to 
wash out any pre-study corticosteroids and/or long-acting bronchodilators and to 
establish FEV1 baseline values. 
• The study protocol should include pre-specified definitions of asthma exacerbation, 
as well as pre-specified and appropriate escape criteria with consideration to patient 
safety. 
• The study protocol should provide a definition of compliant subjects (e.g., used at 
least 75% and no more than 125% of study drug doses) and specify how compliance 
will be verified (e.g., by the use of subject diaries). 
• To ensure study sensitivity, the T and R products should both be statistically superior 
to placebo (p < 0.05) with regard to the BE study primary endpoint. 
• It is the sponsor’s responsibility to enroll a sufficient number of subjects for the study 
to demonstrate BE of the T to the R product. 
• The start and stop date of concomitant medication use during the study should be 
provided in the data set in addition to the reason for the medication use. The sponsor 



should clearly explain whether the medication was used prior to baseline visit, during 
the study or both. 
• All adverse events (AEs) should be reported, whether or not they are considered to be 
related to the treatment. The report of each AE should include the date of onset, 
description of AE, severity, relation to study medication, action taken, outcome, and 
date of resolution. The information will assist FDA in determining whether the 
incidence and severity of adverse reactions is different between the T and R products. 


 

BE study endpoint: FEV1 measured in the morning prior to the dosing of inhaled 
medications on the last day of a 4-week treatment period. 

 

The above primary endpoint should be baseline adjusted (change from baseline). An 
FEV1 baseline is defined as the average of pre-dose FEV1 values of at least two time 
points measured in the morning of the first day of a 4-week treatment period. Sampling is 
recommended to correspond to the same time of day as used on the last day of a 4-week 
treatment period. 

 

Equivalence based on: T/R ratio for the primary endpoint. The 90% confidence intervals 
for the T/R ratios for the primary endpoint should fall within the limits of 80.00-
125.00%. 

 

 

Additional Information 

 

Formulation 

 

FDA recommends that the T product be qualitatively (Q1)5 and quantitatively (Q2)6 the same 
as the R product. 

5 Q1 (qualitative sameness) means that the T product uses the same inactive ingredient(s) as the R product. 

6 Q2 (quantitative sameness) means that concentration of the inactive ingredient(s) used in the T product are within ± 5% of 
those used in the R product. 

 

If a sponsor uses a Q2-different formulation for its T product, the sponsor should explain the 
reason(s) for not using a T formulation that is Q2 the same as the R formulation. In addition, 
the sponsor should provide pharmaceutical development data, involving in vitro testing of 
multiple drug-to-excipient ratios that encompass combinations below and above the ratios 
used in the T and R products. 

 

Device 

 

Sponsors are encouraged to submit a working model and engineering drawings to the Office 
of Generic Drugs (OGD) prior to the abbreviated new drug application (ANDA) submission. 

 

FDA recommends that the T product have the following characteristics: 

• Passive (breath-actuated) device 
• Device-metered multi-dose format 



• Same number of doses as the R product 
• Similar external operating procedures as the R product 
• Similar size and shape to the R product 
• Comparable device resistance to the R product 
• Dose indicator/counter 


 

In addition, in vitro and in use studies should be conducted to support the functionality, 
accuracy and robustness of the proposed T product. 


APPENDIX 

 

 

Variable Name 

Variable Type 

Content 

Notes 

Product Name 

Character 

TEST or REF 

Identifier for 
product 

LOT Number 

Alphanumeric/Numeric 

Alphanumeric/Numeric 

Identifier for 
product lot 

UNIT Number 

Numeric 

Numeric values 

Identifier for unit 
must be unique 
for each product 
(e.g. #1-30 for 
test and #31-60 
for ref). 

Stage 1 

Numeric 

Numeric Values 

S1 

Stage 2 

Numeric 

Numeric Values 

S2 

Stage 3 

Numeric 

Numeric Values 

S3 

Stage 4 

Numeric 

Numeric Values 

S4 

Stage 5 

Numeric 

Numeric Values 

S5 

Stage 6 

Numeric 

Numeric Values 

S6 

Stage 7 

Numeric 

Numeric Values 

S7 

Stage 8 or Filter 

Numeric 

Numeric Values 

S8 

ISM 

Numeric 

Numeric Values 

ISM 

MMAD 

Numeric 

Numeric Values 

MMAD 

GSD 

Numeric 

Numeric Values 

GSD 

FPM 

Numeric 

Numeric Values 

FRM 



 

Example 

 

PRODUCT 

LOT 

Unit 

S1 

S2 

S3 

S4 

S5 

S6 

S7 

S8 or 
Filter 

ISM 

MMAD 

GSD 

FPM 

TEST 

1234 

1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 


