 

Active Ingredient: Budesonide 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Extended release tablet; oral 

 

Recommended Studies: Three studies 

 

1. Type of study: Fasting 


Design: Single-dose, partially or fully replicated crossover design, in vivo 

Strength: 9 mg 

Subjects: Normal healthy males and females, general population. Females should not be 
pregnant, and, if applicable, should practice abstention or contraception during the study. 

 

 

2. Type of study: Fed 


Design: Single-dose, partially or fully replicated crossover design, in vivo 

Strength: 9 mg 

Subjects: Normal healthy males and females, general population. Females should not be 
pregnant, and, if applicable, should practice abstention or contraception during the study. 

 

 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Budesonide in plasma 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Budesonide 

 

Additional comments regarding the bioequivalence (BE) study with PK endpoints: 

 

(1) Applicants may consider using a reference-scaled average bioequivalence 
approach for budesonide. If using this approach, the applicant should provide 
evidence of high variability in the BE parameters (i.e., within-subject variability > 
30%) for the reference product. For general information on this approach, refer to 
the Progesterone capsule guidance for additional information regarding highly 
variable drug products. 


 

(2) For both fasting and fed studies, the following PK parameters are recommended: 
Log-transformed AUC8-48, AUC0-t, and Cmax, where AUC8-48 is the area under the 
plasma concentration vs. time curve from 8 to 48 hours, AUC0-t is the area under 
the curve from 0 hours to the last measurable time point, and Cmax is the 
maximum plasma concentration. There should be at least four non-zero 
measurements of concentrations for the partial AUC8-48. 



 

(3) As AUC0-t is recommended in place of AUC0-8, the last sampling time point 
should be at least at 72 hours. 


 

 

3. Type of study: In vitro comparative dissolution study 

Strength: 9 mg 

Apparatus: USP Apparatus 2 (paddle) 

Acid stage: 2 hours in 0.1 N HCl at 100 rpm (500 mL) 

Buffer stage: Each of 

(1) pH 4.5 acetate buffer at 100 rpm 
(2) pH 6.0 phosphate buffer at 100 rpm 
(3) pH 6.5 phosphate buffer at 100 rpm 
(4) pH 6.8 phosphate buffer at 100 rpm 
(5) pH 7.2 phosphate buffer at 100 rpm 
(6) pH 7.5 phosphate buffer at 100 rpm 


Volume: 1000 mL 

Temperature: 37ºC 

Sample times: As needed for profile comparison when applicable 

Additional comments: Submit dissolution data with 0.5% of and without Macrogol 
Cetostearyl Ether in the buffer stage at different pH values. In addition, the applicant may 
also use other appropriate type(s) of surfactant in the multi-pH media at various 
concentrations and use other appropriate apparatus and rotational speed. Submit a 
detailed dissolution method development report to justify the suitability of the selected 
surfactant and its concentration and the selected apparatus and rotational speed to 
demonstrate bioequivalence between the generic product and the reference listed drug 
(RLD). The applicant should use at least 12 tablets per test. 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: Not applicable 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: The dissolution information for this drug product 
can be found on the FDA-Recommended Dissolution Methods website available to the public at 
the following location: http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Conduct 
comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference 
products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the abbreviated new drug application 
(ANDA). 

 

Due to a concern of dose dumping of drug from this drug product when taken with alcohol, the 
Agency currently requests that additional dissolution testing be conducted using various 
concentrations of ethanol in the dissolution medium, as follows: 

 

Testing conditions: 900 mL, 0.1 N HCl, USP apparatus 2 (paddle) @100 rpm, with or 
without alcohol 

 

Test 1: 12 units tested according to the proposed method (with 0.1N HCl), with data 
collected every 15 minutes for a total of two hours 


 

Test 2: 12 units tested by substituting 5% (v/v) of test medium with Alcohol USP and data 
collection every 15 minutes for a total of two hours 

 

Test 3: 12 units tested by substituting 20% (v/v) of test medium with Alcohol USP and data 
collection every 15 minutes for a total of two hours 

 

Test 4: 12 units tested by substituting 40% (v/v) of test medium with Alcohol USP and data 
collection every 15 minutes for a total of two hours 

 

Both test and RLD products must be tested accordingly and data must be provided on 
individual unit, means, range, and %CV. 

 

 


