 

Active Ingredient: Buprenorphine HCl; Naloxone HCl 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Film; buccal 

 

Recommended Studies: One study 

 

1. Type of study: Fasting 


Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover, in vivo 

Strength: 6.3 mg; 1 mg Buprenorphine (base); Naloxone (base) 

Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population, aged 
18 to 50 years 

Additional comments: 

A. Film should be placed on the buccal area until completely dissolved; film should 
not be moved after placement. Subjects should not chew, swallow, or cut the 
film. 

B. Exclude subjects who have received any opioid within 14 days of dosing. 

C. An opioid antagonist, such as naltrexone hydrochloride oral tablet, 50 mg, may be 
used to minimize opioid-related adverse events. The opioid antagonist should be 
administered well in advance of dosing, in order to achieve adequate blockade of 
opioid receptors. Consult with a physician who is an expert in the administration 
of opioids for the appropriate dose and dosing regimen of an opioid antagonist for 
a single dose of buprenorphine and naloxone buccal film 6.3 mg; 1 mg 
administered to a healthy volunteer who has not received any opioid within 14 
days of dosing. 

D. A clear plan for continuous respiratory monitoring from the time of dosing past 
the time of expected peak effect of the drug (i.e., at least 3 hours after dosing) 
should be included. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) should be in place for 
assessing and treating ventilatory depression, and personnel qualified to treat 
ventilatory emergencies should be immediately available. 

E. Buprenorphine and naloxone buccal film is under a Risk Evaluation and 
Mitigation Strategy (REMS) program with Elements to Assure Safe Use 
(ETASU) to (1) mitigate the risks of accidental overdose, misuse, and abuse, and 
(2) inform patients of the serious risks associated with this drug product. All 
pertinent elements of this REMS and of the warnings in the approved labeling for 
buprenorphine and naloxone buccal film must be incorporated into the protocol 
and informed consent in the bioequivalence (BE) study. 

 


Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Buprenorphine and its active 
metabolite, nor-buprenorphine, in plasma. For Naloxone, measure unconjugated and total 
naloxone in plasma. 

 

Submit the metabolite data as supportive evidence of comparable therapeutic outcome. For the 
metabolite, the following data should be submitted: individual and mean concentrations; 
individual and mean pharmacokinetic parameters; and geometric means and ratios of means for 
AUC and Cmax. 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Buprenorphine and Naloxone 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: Buprenorphine (base); Naloxone (base) 4.2 mg; 0.7 mg and 
2.1 mg; 0.3 mg buccal films based on (i) acceptable BE study on the 6.3 mg; 1 mg strength, (ii) 
acceptable in vitro dissolution testing of all strengths, and (iii) proportional similarity of the 
formulations across all strengths. 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: The dissolution information for this drug 
product can be found on the FDA-Recommended Dissolution Methods website available to the 
public at the following location: http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. 
Conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and 
reference products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the abbreviated new drug 
application (ANDA). 


