 

Active ingredient: Buprenorphine Hydrochloride; Naloxone Hydrochloride 

This draft guidance, when finalized, will represent the current thinking of the Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA, or the Agency) on this topic. It does not establish any rights for any person 
and is not binding on FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if it satisfies the 
requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. To discuss an alternative approach, contact 
the Office of Generic Drugs. 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Film; Sublingual, buccal 

 

Recommended Studies: One study 

 

1. Type of study: Fasting 

Design: Single-dose, two-treatment, two-period crossover in vivo 

Strength: EQ 12 mg base/EQ 3 mg base 

Subjects: Healthy males and non-pregnant, non-lactating females, general 
population, aged 18 to 50 years 

Additional comments: 

A. Film should be placed under the tongue until they are completely dissolved; 
film should not be moved after placement. Advise subjects not to chew, 
swallow or cut the film. 
B. Exclude subjects who have received any opioid within 14 days of dosing. 
C. An opioid antagonist, such as Naltrexone Hydrochloride Oral Tablet, 50 
mg, should be used to minimize opioid-related adverse events. The opioid 
antagonist should be administered well in advance of dosing, in order to 
achieve adequate blockade of opioid receptors. Please consult with a 
physician who is an expert in the administration of opioids for the 
appropriate dose and dosing regimen of an opioid antagonist for a single 
dose of buprenorphine hydrochloride and naloxone hydrochloride 
sublingual film EQ 12 mg base/EQ 3 mg base administered to a healthy 
volunteer who had not received any opioid within 14 days of dosing. 
D. A clear plan for continuous respiratory monitoring from the time of dosing 
past the time of expected peak effect of the drug (i.e. at least 3 hours after 
dosing) should be included. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) should 
be in place for assessing and treating ventilatory depression, and personnel 
qualified to treat ventilatory emergencies should be immediately available. 
E. Buprenorphine Hydrochloride and Naloxone Hydrochloride Sublingual 
Film is under a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) program 
with Elements to Assure Safe Use (ETASU) (1) to mitigate the risks of 
accidental overdose misuse and abuse and (2) inform patients of the serious 
risks associated with this drug product. All pertinent elements of this REMS 
and of the warnings in the approved labeling for buprenorphine 
hydrochloride and naloxone hydrochloride sublingual film must be 



incorporated into the protocol and informed consent in the bioequivalence 
study. 
F. The bioequivalence study be performed using either the sublingual or 
buccal route of administration. The same one route should be used for all 
subjects in both periods. 


 

 

 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Buprenorphine and its 
active metabolite, norbuprenorphine, in plasma. For Naloxone, measure 
unconjugated and total naloxone in plasma. 

 

Please submit the metabolite data as supportive evidence of comparable therapeutic 
outcome. For the metabolite, the following data should be submitted: individual and mean 
concentrations, individual and mean pharmacokinetic parameters, and geometric means 
and ratios of means for AUC and Cmax . 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Buprenorphine and Naloxone 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: EQ 2 mg base/EQ 0.5 mg base, EQ 4 mg base/EQ 1 
mg base and EQ 8 mg base/EQ 2 mg base strengths based on (i) acceptable bioequivalence 
study on the EQ 12 mg base/EQ 3 mg base strength, (ii) acceptable in vitro dissolution 
testing of all strengths, and (iii) proportional similarity of the formulations across all 
strengths. Please refer to the Mirtazapine Tablet Draft Guidance for additional information 
regarding waivers of in vivo testing. 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

 

The dissolution information for this drug product can be found on the FDA-Recommended 
Dissolution Methods web site, available to the public at the following location: 
http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please conduct comparative dissolution 
testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications 
will be determined upon review of the abbreviated new drug application (ANDA). 

. 


