Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Buprenorphine Hydrochloride; Naloxone Hydrochloride 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies 
the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative 
approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Buprenorphine Hydrochloride; Naloxone Hydrochloride 
Form/Route: Sublingual Tablet/Oral 
Recommended study: 1 study 

Type of study: Fasting 

Design: Single-dose, two-treatment, two-period crossover in-vivo 
Strength: 8 mg/2mg (base) 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population 
Additional Comments: 
A naltrexone blockade should be used to remove the risk of any opioid-related adverse 
events. Naltrexone should be administered well in advance of dosing to achieve adequate 
blockade of opioid receptors. The most common approach is to administer 50 mg of 
naltrexone at the following times: (1) 12 hours prior to dosing; (2) at the time of study 
drug dosing; and (3) 12 hours after the last dose of study drug. Please consult with a 
physician who is an expert in the administration of opioids for an appropriate dose of 
narcotic antagonist. 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Buprenorphine and its active 
metabolite, norbuprenorphine, and Naloxone (total and unconjugated), in plasma. 

Please submit the metabolite data as supportive evidence of comparable therapeutic outcome. For 
the metabolite, the following data should be submitted: individual and mean concentrations, 
individual and mean pharmacokinetic parameters, and geometric means and ratios of means for 
AUC and Cmax. 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Buprenorphine and Naloxone 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: 2 mg/0.5 mg (base) strength based on (i) acceptable 
bioequivalence study on the 8 mg/2 mg (base) strength, (ii) acceptable in-vitro dissolution testing 
of all strengths, and (iii) proportional similarity of the formulations across all strengths. 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website 
at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the dissolution 
information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 
dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be 
determined upon review of the application 

Recommended May 2010 


