 

Active ingredient: Acarbose 

 

Form/Route: Tablets/Oral 

 

Recommended studies: 2 Options: In Vitro or In Vivo Studies 

 

1. In Vitro Option 

 

If your test product formulations are qualitatively (Q1, i.e., contains all of the same inactive ingredients) 
and quantitatively (Q2) the same as the reference listed drug (RLD) with respect to inactive ingredients, 
then bioequivalence (BE) of all tablet strengths may be established based solely on comparative dissolution. 
This means that (1) the amount of any excipient in the test product should not be more than ± 5% different 
than the corresponding excipient in the RLD; and (2) the total weight of the test product tablet should not be 
more than ± 5% different than the total weight of the RLD tablet. 

 

For Q1 and Q2 formulations, the following comparative dissolution testing of 12 tablets each of test and 
reference products is recommended: 

 

a. This FDA dissolution testing method is to be used for stability and quality control testing. The 
dissolution specification will be determined upon review of the ANDA. 

 

Apparatus USP Apparatus 2 (paddle) 

Media Water 

Volume 900 mL 

Rotation speed 75 rpm 

Sampling times 10, 15, 20, 30, 45 minutes 

 

b. In addition, the following multi-media dissolution method should be conducted on 12 tablets each of 
test and reference products. 

 

Apparatus USP Apparatus 2 (paddle) 

Media 0.1N HCl, pH 4.5 buffer, and pH 6.8 buffer 

Volume 900 mL 

Rotation speed 50 rpm 

Sampling times 10, 15, 20, 30, 45 and 60 minutes 




 

 An f2 test should be performed using mean profiles to assure comparable test (T) and reference (R) product 
drug release under a range of pH conditions. The f2 test comparing T vs. R in each media should be 50 or 
greater. Note that the f2 test is not necessary when both T and R dissolve 85% or more in 15 minutes or less 
using all three media. 

 

 

 

 

 


2. In Vivo Option 

 

If your test product formulations are NOT qualitatively (Q1) and quantitatively (Q2) the same as the 
reference listed drug (RLD) with respect to inactive ingredients, bioequivalence should be established by 
conducting a study with pharmacodynamic endpoints. The most appropriate endpoint for acarbose is the 
change in serum glucose concentrations. A pilot study should first be conducted to determine the 
appropriate dose for the pivotal BE study, as described below: 

 

a. Pilot Study 




 

A pilot study is necessary for two reasons, to determine (1) the appropriate dose for the pivotal BE 
study; and (2) the appropriate number of study subjects needed to provide adequate statistical power 
to show bioequivalence in the pivotal study. The pilot study should use the RLD given with 75 g of 
sucrose, and should identify the lowest possible dose that will yield a pharmacodynamic response 
above baseline. This is done to assure that the glucose-lowering response is not near the plateau of the 
dose-response curve. Thus, the first dose tested should be the RLD 1*25mg tablet. If treatment with 
this dose does not elicit a measurable response relative to baseline, it may be necessary to repeat the 
study with multiples of the 25mg strength, beginning with 2*25mg. The treatments to establish the 
appropriate dose can be studied in the same group of subjects, with a one-week washout between each 
treatment, until the optimal dose for the pivotal study is identified. 

 

b. Bioequivalence Study 

 

The pivotal BE study should use the 25-mg strength of test and reference products administered at the 
dose identified in the pilot study. The recommended study design is a randomized balanced two-way 
crossover study, with a one-week washout between treatments. 

 

A separate fed bioequivalence study is not necessary. 

 

3. General Information for Pilot and BE Studies 

 

a. The diet and physical activity of the study subjects should be strictly controlled prior to and during 
the study. In addition, because sensitivity to potential differences between products may be reduced 
in obese subjects, the protocol should specify an acceptable subject weight range. 

 

b. Please measure serum glucose as a pharmacodynamic endpoint for acarbose. The bioanalytical 
method used to assay for serum glucose should be properly validated. Please consult the CDER 
Guidance for Industry: Bioanalytical Method Validation, posted May 2001, for recommendations 
about the appropriate approach. 




 

c. We recommend that you obtain a baseline for serum glucose in the following manner: 




 

• Subjects should receive a challenge dose of 75 g of sucrose on the day prior to drug treatment. 
The sugar may be given as a solution, 75 g in 150 mL water. The sucrose challenge should 
follow an overnight fast. 




 

• Following the administration of sucrose, blood should be sampled for serum glucose for up to 4 
hours. Drug treatment will take place on the following day. 




 

• On the drug treatment day, drug should be given together with 75 g of sucrose. Blood should be 
sampled for serum glucose for up to 4 hours after acarbose/sucrose administration. 




 


d. The literature suggests that the maximum reduction of serum glucose following acarbose 
administration upon sucrose challenge occurs within the first hour. Therefore, we recommend 
intensive sampling during the first hour post-dosing to adequately capture the maximum reduction in 
serum glucose levels. 




 

e. Bioequivalence evaluation will be based on the reduction of serum glucose levels following treatment 
with acarbose and sucrose together relative to the baseline serum glucose levels observed (on the 
prior day) following the sucrose baseline challenge. Thus, the appropriate parameters used for 
bioequivalence statistics are baseline-adjusted (1) maximum reduction in serum glucose concentration 
(Cmax); and (2) area under the serum glucose reduction versus time curve through 4 hours, AUEC(0-
4). The Cmax represents the maximum difference between the baseline glucose profile determined 
on the day prior to drug treatment and the glucose profile determined on the day of drug treatment. 
AUEC(0-4) represents the difference in areas computed from the glucose levels following the 
baseline challenge and following the acarbose and sucrose administration. 

 

e. To establish bioequivalence between your product and the RLD in the pharmacodynamic endpoint 
study, the 90% confidence intervals for the test/reference ratios for AUEC(0-4) and Cmax should fall 
within the bioequivalence limits of 0.8 to 1.25. 




 

f. It is not necessary to measure plasma concentrations of acarbose. 




 

g. We recommend that you submit protocols for evaluation prior to initiating the pilot and pivotal 
bioequivalence studies. 




 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: 50 mg and 100 mg based on (i) acceptable in vivo bioequivalence study 
on the 25 mg strength, (ii) acceptable in vitro dissolution testing of all strengths, and (iii) proportional 
similarity of the formulations. 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

 

Regardless of the option chosen, please provide dissolution data on 12 dosage units each of test and reference 
products for all strengths using the three different media described in the In Vitro Option section above. 

 

In addition, please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website at 
http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the dissolution information for this 
product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all 
strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the application. 

 


