Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Acetaminophen 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's 
(FDA's) current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any 
person and does not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach 
if the approach satisfies the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you 
want to discuss an alternative approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Acetaminophen 

Form/Route: Extended Release Tablet/Oral 

Recommended studies: 2 studies 

1. Type of study: Fasting 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: 650 mg 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population. 
Additional Comments: 
2. Type of study: Fed 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: 650 mg 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population. 
Additional Comments: Please refer to the Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablet Guidance 
for additional information regarding fed studies. 


Analytes to measure: Acetaminophen in plasma 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Acetaminophen 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: Acetaminophen Extended Release Caplet or Gelcap, 650 mg 
based on (i) acceptable bioequivalence studies on the 650 mg strength Geltab or Caplet, (ii) 
acceptable in-vitro dissolution testing of both dosage forms, and (iii) proportional similarity of 
both formulations. 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website 
at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the dissolution 
information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 
12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be 
determined upon review of the application. 

Recommended Feb 2011 


