

Active Ingredient: Acetaminophen; Oxycodone hydrochloride 



Dosage Form; Route: Extended-release tablet; Oral 



Recommended Studies: Two Studies 



1.Type of study: Fasting


Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo

Strength: 325 mg/7.5 mg

Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population.

Additional Comments: A clear plan for continuous respiratory monitoring from the time ofdosing past the time of expected peak effect of the drug (i.e. at least 4 hours from dosing)
should be included. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) should be in place for assessingand treating ventilatory depression, and personnel qualified to treat ventilatory emergenciesshould be immediately available.



2.Type of study: Fed


Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo

Strength: 325 mg/7.5 mg

Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population.

Additional Comments: Please see the commons above.



Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): acetaminophen and oxycodone in 
plasma 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): acetaminophen and oxycodone 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: Not applicable 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: The dissolution information for this drug 
product can be found on the FDA-Recommended Dissolution Methods website available to the 
public at the following location: http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. 
Conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage units of the test and reference products. 
Specifications will be determined upon review of the abbreviated new drug application (ANDA). 

In addition to the method above, for modified release products, dissolution profiles on 12 dosage 
units of test and reference products generated using USP Apparatus I at 100 rpm and/or 


Apparatus II at 50 rpm in at least three dissolution media (pH 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8 buffer) should be 
submitted in the application. Agitation speeds may have to be increased if appropriate. It is 
acceptable to add a small amount of surfactant, if necessary. Please include early sampling times 
of 1, 2, and 4 hours and continue every 2 hours until at least 80% of the drug is released, to 
provide assurance against premature release of drug (dose dumping) from the formulation. 

Due to a concern of dose dumping of drug from this drug product when taken with alcohol, the 
Agency currently requests that additional dissolution testing be conducted using various 
concentrations of ethanol in the dissolution medium, as follows: 

Testing Conditions: 900 mL, 0.1 N HCl, USP apparatus 2 (paddle) @100 rpm, with or 
without alcohol; 

Test 1: 12 units tested according to the proposed method (with 0.1N HCl), with data 
collected every 15 minutes for a total of 2 hours. 

Test 2: 12 units analyzed by substituting 5% (v/v) of test medium with Alcohol USP and 
data collection every 15 minutes for a total of 2 hours. 

Test 3: 12 units analyzed by substituting 20% (v/v) of test medium with Alcohol USP and 
data collection every 15 minutes for a total of 2 hours. 

Test 4: 12 units analyzed by substituting 40% (v/v) of test medium with Alcohol USP and 
data collection every 15 minutes for a total of 2 hours. 

Both test and RLD products should be tested accordingly and data should be provided on 
individual unit, means, range and %CV. 


