 

Active Ingredient: Acitretin 

Dosage Form; Route: Capsules; oral 

Recommended Studies: Two studies 

 

1. Type of study: Fasting 

Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in vivo 

Strength: 25 mg 

Subjects: Normal healthy males, general population 

Additional comments: Due to the known teratogenicity of acitretin, 
bioequivalence (BE) studies should be conducted in healthy male volunteers 

To ensure that the BE studies incorporate the appropriate safeguards against 
pregnancy exposure to the drug, we recommend: 

a) Giving the reference listed drug (RLD) medication guide to each subject. Enroll 
subjects who are able to read the RLD medication guide, either in English or in a 
provided translation. 
b) Advising subjects not to donate blood during and for at least 3 years following 
therapy because acitretin in the blood can harm an unborn baby if the blood is 
given to a pregnant woman. 


 

2. Type of study: Fed 

Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in vivo 

Strength: 25 mg 

Subjects: Normal healthy males, general population 

Additional comments: Same as comments above 

 

 

Analytes to measure: All-trans-acitretin and 13-cis-acitretin in plasma. Since acitretin 
undergoes extensive presystemic metabolism and interconversion by isomerization to 13-cis-
acitretin, measurement of all-trans-acitretin and 13-cis-acitretin in plasma is recommended. The 
pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters for all-trans-acitretin should meet the current BE criteria. The 
13-cis-acitretin data will be used as supportive evidence. For the metabolite, the following data 
should be submitted: individual and mean concentrations, individual and mean PK parameters, 
and geometric means and ratios of means for AUC and Cmax. 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): All-trans-acitretin 

 


Waiver request of in vivo testing: 10 mg, 17.5 mg, and 22.5 mg strengths based on (i) 
acceptable BE studies on the 25 mg strength, (ii) proportional similarity across all strengths, 
and (iii) acceptable in vitro dissolution testing of all strengths. 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

The dissolution information for this drug product can be found on the FDA-Recommended 
Dissolution Methods Web site, available to the public at the following location: 
http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Conduct comparative dissolution 
testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. 
Specifications will be determined upon review of the abbreviated new drug application 
(ANDA). 


