 

Active Ingredient: Acyclovir 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Buccal tablet; oral 

 

Recommended Studies: Two options: in vitro study, or in vivo and in vitro study 

 

1. In vitro option: 


 

Bioequivalence based on in vitro studies if the test formulation is qualitatively and 
quantitatively the same (Q1/Q2) as the reference listed drug (RLD). In addition, the test 
formulation should have inactive ingredients of comparable grade (compendial/technical 
grade) to that used in the RLD. Under this approach, bioequivalence can be 
demonstrated based on: 

 

a) In vitro comparative dissolution study 
b) In vitro comparative adhesion study 


 

2. In vivo and in vitro option: 


 

Bioequivalence based on both in vivo and in vitro studies if the test product formulations 
are not Q1/Q2 the same as the RLD or if the inactive ingredients are not of comparable 
grade (compendial/technical grade) to that used in the RLD. Under this approach, 
bioequivalence can be demonstrated based on: 

 

a) In vivo study with clinical endpoints in patients with herpes labialis (cold sores). We 
recommend that any sponsor choosing this option submit a protocol outlining and 
validating their method to conduct a proposed clinical endpoint study to OGD for 
review and concurrence prior to initiating the study. 
b) In vitro comparative dissolution study 
c) In vitro comparative adhesion study 



Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Not applicable (N/A) 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Clinical endpoint (in vivo option) 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: N/A 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: The dissolution information for this drug 
product can be found on the FDA-Recommended Dissolution Methods Web site, available to the 
public at the following location: http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. 
Conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and 
reference products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the abbreviated new drug 
application (ANDA). 

Additional information on in vitro comparative dissolution study: 

Apparatus: U.S. Pharmacopeia (USP) 2 (paddle) 

Speed: 100 rpm 

Media: pH 6 (KH2PO4) phosphate buffer (0.2 M) 

pH 4.0 (0.1 % NaCl solution, pH adjusted to pH 4.0) 

pH 6.0 (0.05 M phosphate buffer solution) 

pH 7.0 (0.1 % NaCl solution, pH adjusted to pH 7.0) 

pH 6.8 simulated salivary fluid – phosphate buffer saline solution 

Volume: 1000 mL 

Temperature: 37ºC 

Sampling times: 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 12 hours, or as needed for profile comparison 

 

Additional comments: The applicant should use at least 12 dosage units per test. The f2 
metric will be used to compare dissolution profiles. 

 

Additional information on in vitro comparative adhesion study: 

The firm is recommended to optimize relevant in vitro adhesion test conditions, 
including but not limited to contact time, applied force for adhesion, and withdrawal speed 
of the probe. This is primarily because the aforementioned instrument variables can have a 
profound effect on the adhesion force (peak detachment force) and energy of adhesion 
(work of adhesion). This may need to be optimized considering both the test and reference 
formulations, since they may differ with respect to physical attributes such as hardness. 

A tensiometry study is recommended to compare the peak detachment force for test and 
reference products.1 Water is recommended between the buccal tablets and the base plate of 
the tensiometer. The loading weight and length of time the loading weight is applied to 
press the buccal tablet into contact with the base plate should be specified. Following 
removal of the weight, the rate at which the buccal tablet is pulled away from the base plate 
should be specified. The peak detachment force should be measured as the force required to 
detach the buccal tablet from the base plate. The comparative adhesion test should be 
conducted using 12 individual units of the test and reference products. 

1 HE Junginger et al. Mucoadhesive Hydrogels in Drug Delivery. Encyclopedia Pharm Technol, 2002. 

 


Prior to conducting studies for submission to the ANDA, the firm should determine 
appropriate loading weight, length of time the loading weight is applied to press the buccal 
tablet into contact with the base plate of the tensiometer, and the rate at which the buccal 
tablet is pulled away from the base plate.2 These studies should be conducted to ensure the 
appropriateness of the test conditions to the test and reference products. 

2 SJ Jackson, AC Perkins. In Vitro Assessment of the Mucoadhesion of Cholestyramine to Porcine and Human 
Gastric Mucosa. Eur J Pharm Biopharm. 2001;52:121-127. 

 


