 

Active Ingredient: Adapalene 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Cream; topical 

 

Recommended Studies: One study 

 

Type of study: Bioequivalence (BE) Study with clinical endpoint 

Design: Randomized, double blind, parallel, placebo controlled, in vivo 

Strength: 0.1% 

Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females with acne vulgaris 

Additional comments: Specific recommendations are provided below 

 

 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Not applicable (N/A) 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Clinical endpoint 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: N/A 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times:N/A 

 
Additional comments regarding the BE study with clinical endpoint: 

 

1. The Office of Generic Drugs (OGD) recommends conducting a BE study with a clinical 
endpoint in the treatment of acne vulgaris comparing adapalene cream, 0.1% test product 
versus the reference listed drug (RLD) and placebo (vehicle) control, each administered 
as one application once a day in the evening for 12 weeks. 


 

2. The recommended two primary endpoints of the study are: 1) mean percent change from 
baseline to week 12 (Day 84) in the inflammatory (papules and pustules) lesion count and 
2) mean percent change from baseline to week 12 in the non-inflammatory (open and 
closed comedones) lesion count. 


 

3. The protocol should clearly define papules, pustules, open comedones, closed 
comedones, nodules and cysts. When counting facial acne lesions, it is important that all 
lesions be counted, including those present on the nose. Counts of nodules and cysts 
should be reported separately and not included in the inflammatory or non-inflammatory 
lesion counts. 


 


4. A placebo (vehicle) control arm is recommended to demonstrate that the test product and 
RLD are active and as a parameter that the study is sufficiently sensitive to detect 
differences between products. 


 

5. It is the sponsor's responsibility to enroll sufficient subjects for the study to demonstrate 
bioequivalence between the products. 


 

6. Subjects should be instructed to cleanse the face with a mild or soapless, non-medicated 
cleanser, pat dry and then apply a thin layer of the product to the entire face, avoiding 
contact with the eyes, lips, angles of the nose, and mucous membranes and washing 
hands before and after applications. Subjects should be instructed to not apply the product 
to cuts, abrasions, eczematous skin, or sunburned skin, not apply the product more than 
once daily, not use more than the recommended amount and not use “waxing” as a 
depilatory method on skin treated with the product. 


 

7. Subjects should not apply moisturizers, new brands of make-up, creams, lotions, powders 
or any topical product other than the assigned treatment to the treatment area. Subjects 
should be instructed to minimize exposure to sunlight, including sunlamps, while using 
the product. Use of sunscreen products and protective clothing over treated areas is 
recommended when sun exposure cannot be avoided. 


 

8. Assignment of the test product, RLD, and placebo control should be randomized. The 
method of randomization should be described in the protocol. It is recommended that an 
independent third party generate and hold the randomization code throughout the conduct 
of the study in order to minimize bias. A sealed copy of the randomization scheme should 
be retained at the study site and should be available to FDA investigators at the time of 
site inspection to allow for verification of the treatment identity of each subject. 


 

9. The packaging of both the tube and the outer containers of the test, reference, and 
placebo products should be similar in appearance. If the appearance of the test, reference, 
or placebo products is markedly different, maintaining adequate blinding of the study for 
the subjects, evaluators and investigators will be a challenge. As much as possible, 
subjects should be blinded to the identity of their treatment. At a minimum, the placebo 
control should appear identical to the test product, and all study drugs should be provided 
in identical packaging. A detailed description of the blinding procedure should be 
provided in the protocol. 


 

10. Please refer to 21 CFR 320.38, 320.63 and the Guidance for Industry, “Handling and 
Retention of BA and BE Testing Samples”, regarding retention of study drug samples 
and 21 CFR 320.36 for requirements for maintenance of records of bioequivalence 
testing. In addition, the investigators should follow the procedures of ICH E6, “Good 
Clinical Practice: Consolidated Guideline”, for retention of study records and data in 
order to conduct their studies in compliance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) and 
Good Clinical Practices (GCP). Retention samples should be randomly selected by each 
drug site prior to dispensing to subjects. Retention samples should not be returned to the 
sponsor at any time. 



 

11. Inclusion Criteria (the sponsor may add additional criteria) 
a. Healthy male or nonpregnant female aged = 12 and = 40 years with a clinical 
diagnosis of acne vulgaris. 
b. On the face, = 25 non-inflammatory lesions (i.e., open and closed comedones) AND 
= 20 inflammatory lesions (i.e., papules and pustules) AND = 2 nodulocystic lesions 
(i.e., nodules and cysts). 
c. Investigator’s Global Assessment (IGA) of acne severity grade 2, 3, or 4 (per Table 
1). 





 

Table 1. Sample IGA Scale for Acne Vulgaris1 

1 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration, Center for Drug Evaluation and 
Research. Draft Guidance for Industry: Acne Vulgaris: Developing Drugs for Treatment. Clinical/Medical. 
September 2005. Accessed at 
http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/UCM071292.pdf 

 

Grade 

Description 

0 

Clear skin with no inflammatory or noninflammatory lesions 

1 

Almost clear; rare noninflammatory lesions with no more than one small inflammatory 
lesion 

2 

Mild severity; greater than Grade 1; some noninflammatory lesions with no more than 
a few inflammatory lesions (papules/pustules only, no nodular lesions) 

3 

Moderate severity; greater than Grade 2; up to many noninflammatory lesions and may 
have some inflammatory lesions, but no more than one small nodular lesion 

4* 

Severe; greater than Grade 3; up to many noninflammatory lesions and may have some 
inflammatory lesions, but no more than a few nodular lesions 



* The Case Report Forms for acne studies can allow for reporting by investigators of lesion 
worsening beyond Grade 4 with treatment. It is recommended that enrollment of acne vulgaris 
subjects not include subjects with nodulocystic acne. Subjects who worsen beyond Grade 4 are 
to be described in the safety evaluation. 

 

d. Willing to refrain from use of all other topical acne medications or antibiotics during 
the 12-week treatment period. 
e. If female of childbearing potential, willing to use an acceptable form of birth control 
during the study. 




 

12. Exclusion Criteria (the sponsor may add additional criteria) 
a. Pregnant, breast feeding or planning a pregnancy. 
b. Presence of any skin condition that would interfere with the diagnosis or assessment 
of acne vulgaris (e.g., on the face: rosacea, dermatitis, psoriasis, squamous cell 
carcinoma, eczema, acneform eruptions caused by medications, steroid acne, steroid 
folliculitis, or bacterial folliculitis). 
c. Excessive facial hair (e.g. beards, sideburns, moustaches, etc.) that would interfere 
with diagnosis or assessment of acne vulgaris. 






d. History of hypersensitivity or allergy to adapalene, retinoids and/or any of the study 
medication ingredients. 
e. Use within 6 months prior to baseline or during the study of oral retinoids (e.g. 
Accutane®) or therapeutic vitamin A supplements of greater than 10,000 units/day 
(multivitamins are allowed). 
f. Use for less than 3 months prior to baseline of estrogens or oral contraceptives; use of 
such therapy must remain constant throughout the study. 
g. Use on the face within 1 month prior to baseline or during the study of 1) 
cryodestruction or chemodestruction, 2) dermabrasion, 3) photodynamic therapy, 4) 
acne surgery, 5) intralesional steroids, or 6) x-ray therapy. 
h. Use within 1 month prior to baseline or during the study of 1) systemic steroids, 2) 
systemic antibiotics, 3) systemic treatment for acne vulgaris (other than oral retinoids, 
which require a 6-month washout), or 4) systemic anti-inflammatory agents. 
i. Use within 2 weeks prior to baseline or during the study of 1) topical steroids, 2) 
topical retinoids, 3) topical acne treatments including over-the-counter preparations, 
4) topical anti-inflammatory agents, or 5) topical antibiotics. 




 

13. The protocol should include a list of the prescription and over-the-counter drug products, 
procedures, and activities that are prohibited during the study, such as: 
a. Any other topical products applied to face. 
b. Medicated soaps used on face. 
c. Spironolactone. 
d. Oral retinoids, therapeutic vitamin A supplements of greater than 10,000 units/day 
(multivitamins are allowed) or other systemic treatment for acne vulgaris. 
e. Systemic (e.g., oral or injectable) antibiotics. 
f. Systemic steroids, systemic anti-inflammatory agents or immunosuppressive drugs. 
g. Antipruritics, including antihistamines, within 24 hours of study visits. 
h. Use on the face of 1) cryodestruction or chemodestruction, 2) dermabrasion, 3) 
photodynamic therapy, 4) acne surgery, 5) intralesional steroids, or 6) x-ray therapy. 
i. Use of hormonal contraceptives should not be initiated or changed during the study. 
j. Use of tanning booths, sunbathing, or excessive exposure to the sun. 





 

14. To establish bioequivalence, the 90% confidence interval of the test/reference ratio of the 
mean percent change from baseline to week 12 in the inflammatory (papules and 
pustules) lesion counts and in the non-inflammatory (comedones) lesion counts should be 
contained within [0.80, 1.25], using the per protocol (PP) population. 


 

15. As a parameter for determining adequate study sensitivity, the test product and RLD 
should both be statistically superior to placebo control (p<0.05) with regard to 1) percent 
change from baseline to week 12 in the inflammatory lesion counts and 2) percent change 
from baseline to week 12 in the non-inflammatory lesion counts, both using the modified 
intent-to-treat (mITT) study population and Last Observation Carried Forward (LOCF). 


 

16. The dichotomized IGA severity scale should be treated as a secondary endpoint for 
supportive evidence. This secondary endpoint should be evaluated as the proportion of 
subjects with a clinical response of “success” at week 12. Success should be defined as an 



IGA score that is at least 2 grades less than the baseline assessment. Failure should be 
defined as an IGA score that is the same, higher or one grade lower than the baseline 
assessment. 


 

17. The protocol should clearly define the per-protocol (PP), modified intent-to-treat (mITT) 
and safety populations in the protocol. 
a. The accepted PP population used for bioequivalence evaluation includes all 
randomized subjects who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria, apply a prespecified 
proportion of the scheduled applications (e.g., 75% to 125%) of the assigned product 
for the specified duration of the study, do not miss the scheduled applications for 
more than 3 consecutive days, and complete the evaluation within the designated visit 
window (+/- 4 days) with no protocol violations that would affect the treatment 
evaluation. The protocol should specify how compliance will be verified, e.g., by the 
use of subject diaries. 
b. The mITT population includes all randomized subjects who meet the 
inclusion/exclusion criteria, apply at least one dose of assigned product, and return for 
at least one post-baseline evaluation visit. 
c. The safety population includes all randomized subjects who receive study product. 





 

18. Subjects who are discontinued prematurely from the study due to lack of treatment effect 
should be included in the PP population as treatment failures (i.e., non-responders). 
Subjects whose condition worsens and require alternate or supplemental therapy for the 
treatment of acne vulgaris during the study should be discontinued, included in the PP 
population analysis, and provided with effective treatment. Subjects discontinued 
prematurely for other reasons should be excluded from the PP population, but included in 
the mITT population, using LOCF. 


 

19. All adverse events (AEs) should be reported, whether or not they are considered to be 
related to the treatment. The report of AEs should include date of onset, description of the 
AE, and date of resolution. This information is needed to determine if the incidence and 
severity of adverse reactions is different between the test product and RLD. 


 

20. Application site reactions such as erythema, dryness, burning/stinging, erosion, edema, 
pain and itching are to be recorded at each visit to allow a comparison between treatment 
groups. A descriptive analysis comparing the application site reactions for each treatment 
group is recommended. It is important to ensure that the test product is not worse than the 
reference product with regard to the expected and unexpected application site reactions. 


 

21. The start and stop date of concomitant medication use during the study should be 
provided in the data set in addition to the reason for the medication use. 


 

22. If the inactive ingredients are different than those contained in the RLD or in significantly 
different amounts, then the sponsor should clearly describe the differences and provide 
information to show that the differences will not affect the safety, efficacy and/or 
systemic or local availability. 


 


23. The following Statistical Analysis Method is recommended for equivalence testing for a 
continuous variable: 


 

Equivalence Analysis 

The compound hypothesis to be tested is: 

 

H0: µT / µR = .1 or µT / µR = .2 versus HA : .1 < µT / µR < .2 

 

Where µT = mean of test treatment, and µR = mean of reference treatment 

 

Typically, we reject H0 with a type I error a = 0.05 (two 1-sided tests), if the 90% 
confidence interval for the ratio of means between test and reference products (µT / 
µR) is contained within the interval [.1, .2], where .1 = 0.80 and .2 = 1.25. 

 

Rejection of the null hypothesis H0 supports the conclusion of equivalence of the two 
products. 

 

24. The following Statistical Analysis Method is recommended for equivalence testing for a 
dichotomous variable (success/failure): 


 

Equivalence Analysis 

Based on the usual method used in OGD for binary outcomes, the 90% confidence 
interval for the difference in success proportions between test and reference treatment 
must be contained within [-0.20, +0.20] in order to establish equivalence. 

 

The compound hypothesis to be tested is: 

 

H - < -0.20 or - > 0.20 0: algebraic expression
TpRpTpRp

versus 

H - = 0.20 A: -0.20 = TpRp

where = success rate of test treatment and = success rate of reference 
treatment. 
TpRp

Let 

 = sample size of test treatment group Tn

 c= number of successes in test treatment group Tn

 = sample size of reference treatment group Rn

 c= number of successes in reference treatment group Rn

 

 = c/ , = c/ , 
Tp^
TnTnRp^
RnRn


 and se = ((1 - )/ + (1 - )/ ) ½. 
Tp^
Tp^
TnRp^
Rp^
Rn

The 90% confidence interval for the difference in proportions between test and 
reference was calculated as follows, using Yates’ correction: 

 

 L = ( - ) – 1.645 se – (1/ + 1/)/2 
Tp^
Rp^
TnRn

 - ) + 1.645 se + (1/ + 1/)/2 U = (
Tp^
Rp^
TnRn

We reject H0 if L = -0.20 and U = 0.20 

 

Rejection of the null hypothesis H0 supports the conclusion of equivalence of the two 
products. 

 

25. Rank transformation of the data may be needed if the data is significantly skewed such 
that analysis of the raw data would not be valid. 


 

26. Study data should be submitted to the OGD in electronic format. 
a. A list of file names with a simple description of the content of each file should be 
included. Such a list should include an explanation of the variables included in each 
of the data sets. 
b. Please provide a “pdf” document with a detailed description of the codes that are used 
for each variable in each of the SAS datasets (for example, Y=yes, N=no for analysis 
population). 
c. All SAS transport files, covering all variables collected in the Case Report Forms 
(CRFs) per patient, should include .xpt as the file extension and should not be 
compressed. A simple SAS program to open the data transport files and SAS files 
should be included. 
d. Primary data sets should consist of two data sets: No Last Observation Carried 
Forward (NO-LOCF-pure data set) and Last Observation Carried Forward (LOCF-
modified data set). 
e. Please provide a separate dataset for variables such as demographics, lesion counts, 
vital signs, adverse events, disposition (including reason for discontinuation of 
treatment), concomitant medications, medical history, compliance and comments, etc. 


 

27. Please provide a summary dataset containing a separate line listing for each subject (if 
data exist) using the following headings, if applicable: 
a. Study identifier 
b. Subject identifier 
c. Site identifier: study center 
d. Age 
e. Age units (years) 
f. Sex 



g. Race 
h. Name of Actual Treatment (exposure): test product, RLD, placebo control 
i. Location of Treatment Area 
j. Duration of Treatment (total exposure in days) 
k. Completed the study (yes/no) 
l. Reason for premature discontinuation of subject 
m. Subject required additional treatment for acne vulgaris due to unsatisfactory treatment 
response (yes/no) 
n. Per Protocol (PP) population inclusion (yes/no) 
o. Reason for exclusion from PP population 
p. Modified Intent to Treat (mITT) population inclusion (yes/no) 
q. Reason for exclusion from mITT population 
r. Safety population inclusion (yes/no) 
s. Reason for exclusion from Safety population 
t. Total number of inflammatory lesions on the face at baseline 
u. Total number of non-inflammatory lesions on the face at baseline 
v. Total number of nodules/cysts on the face at baseline 
w. IGA score at baseline 
x. Total number of inflammatory lesions on the face at week 12 
y. Total number of non-inflammatory lesions on the face at week 12 
z. Total number of nodules/cysts on the face at week 12 
aa. IGA score at week 12 
bb. Final designation for IGA (success/failure) 
cc. Treatment compliance : number of missed doses per patient 
dd. Concomitant medication (yes/no) 
ee. Adverse event(s) reported (yes/no) 


 

Please refer to Table 2 as an example. This sample table may contain additional 
information not applicable to your study and/or it may not contain all information 
applicable to your study. 

Table 2: Example of a summary dataset containing one line listing for each subject 

 

STUDYID 

SUBJID 

SITEID 

AGE 

AGEU 

SEX 

RACE 

EXTRT 

EXLOC 

EXDUR 

completd 

disc_rs 

add_trt 

pp 

pp_rs 

mitt 

mitt_rs 

101 

1 

01 

21 

YEARS 

F 

1 

A 

Face 

14 

Y 

 

N 

Y 

 

Y 

 

101 

2 

01 

30 

YEARS 

F 

1 

B 

Face 

14 

Y 

 

N 

Y 

 

Y 

 



 


safety 

safe_rs 

numinfb 

numnonb 

numnodb 

iga_b 

numinf12 

numnon12 

numnod12 

iga_12 

iga_f 

complian 

CM 

AE 

Y 

 

32 

45 

0 

3 

16 

30 

0 

2 

F 

0 

Y 

Y 

Y 

 

25 

36 

1 

3 

10 

18 

1 

1 

S 

0 

N 

N 



Note: Capitalized headings are from Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) 
Study Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) Implementation Guide (IG) for Human Clinical Trials 
V3.1.2 Final dated 11/12/08. 

 

STUDYID: Study Identifier 

SUBJID: Subject Identifier for the Study 

SITEID: Study Site Identifier 

AGE: Age 

AGEU: Age units (years) 

SEX: Sex, e.g., M=Male, F=Female, U=Unknown 

RACE: Race, e.g., 1=White, 2=Black or African American, 3=Asian, 4=American 
Indian or Alaska Native, 5=Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islanders 

EXTRT: Name of Actual Treatment (exposure), e.g., A=test product, B= RLD, 
C=placebo control 

EXLOC: Location of Treatment Area, e.g. F=face, etc. 

EXDUR: Duration of Treatment (total exposure in days) 

completd: Subject completed the study, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

disc_rs: Reason for premature discontinuation from the study, e.g., A=adverse 
event, B=death, C=lost to follow-up, D=non-compliance with treatment, 
E=treatment unblinded, F=subject moved out of area, G=unsatisfactory 
treatment response, H=withdrew consent, I=protocol violation, K=other 
event 

add_trt: Subject required additional treatment for acne vulgaris due to 
unsatisfactory treatment response, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

pp: Per Protocol (PP) population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No) 

pp_rs: Reason for exclusion from PP population, e.g., A=prematurely 
discontinued, B=lost to follow-up, C=subject moved out of the area, 
D=noncompliant, etc. 

mitt: Modified Intent to Treat (mITT) population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

mitt_rs: Reason for exclusion from mITT population, e.g., A=never treated, etc. 

safety: Safety population inclusion, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

safe_rs: Reason for exclusion from Safety population, e.g., A=never treated, etc. 

numinfb: Total number of inflammatory lesions on face at baseline 

numnonb: Total number of noninflammatory lesions on face at baseline 

numnodb: Total number of nodular/cystic lesions on face at baseline 

iga_b: IGA score at baseline, e.g., 0=Clear; 1=Almost clear, 2=Mild, 
3=Moderate, 4=Severe 

numinf12: Total number of inflammatory lesions on face at week 12 


numnon12: Total number of noninflammatory lesions on face at week 12 

numnod12: Total number of nodular/cystic lesions on face at week 12 

iga_12: IGA score at week 12, e.g., 0=Clear; 1=Almost clear, 2=Mild, 
3=Moderate, 4=Severe 

iga_f: Final designation for IGA, e.g., S=Success; F=Failure 

complian: Treatment compliance, e.g., number of missed doses per patient 

CM: Concomitant medication, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

AE: Adverse event(s) reported, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

 

28. Please provide a dataset containing a separate line listing for visit per subject (if data 
exist) using the following headers, if applicable: 
a. Study identifier 
b. Subject identifier 
c. Name of Actual Treatment (exposure): test product, RLD, placebo control 
d. Location of Dose Administration: application site 
e. Visit number 
f. Visit date 
g. Number of days since baseline visit 
h. Evaluator: identity of evaluator 
i. Total number of inflammatory lesions 
j. Total number of noninflammatory lesions 
k. Total number of nodular/cystic lesions 
l. IGA score 
m. Skin reaction scores for each sign and symptom evaluated (e.g., erythema, dryness, 
burning/stinging, erosion, edema, pain, itching, etc.) 
n. Concomitant medication reported during this visit (yes/no) 
o. Adverse event reported during this visit (yes/no) 
p. Laboratory testing during this visit (yes/no) 


 

Please refer to Table 3 as an example. This sample table may contain additional 
information not applicable to your study and/or it may not contain all information 
applicable to your study. 

 

Table 3: Example of dataset containing one line listing for each visit per subject 

STUDYID 

SUBJID 

EXTRT 

EXLOC 

VISITNUM 

SVSTDTC 

ELTMBS 

EVAL 

numinf 

numnon 

numnod 

iga 

101 

1 

A 

F 

1 

2004-
07-01 

1 

 

35 

28 

1 

3 



 


erythema 

dryness 

burning 

erosion 

edema 

pain 

itching 

CMrpt 

AErpt 

LBtest 

1 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

Y 

Y 

N 



 

Note: Capitalized headings are from Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) 
Study Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) Implementation Guide (IG) for Human Clinical Trials 
V3.1.2 Draft dated 7/25/07. 

 

STUDYID: Study Identifier 

SUBJID: Subject Identifier for the Study 

EXTRT: Name of Actual Treatment (exposure), e.g. A=test product, B=RLD, C= 
placebo control 

EXLOC: Location of Treatment Area: specific anatomical site of application, e.g., 
F=face etc. 

VISITNUM: Visit Sequence Number 

SVSTDTC: Visit date: (SVSTDTC=Subject Visit Start Date Time-Character) 

ELTMBL: Elapsed Time since Baseline (days) 

EVAL: Evaluator: identity of the evaluator 

numinf: Total number of inflammatory lesions on face 

numnon: Total number of noninflammatory lesions on face 

numnod: Total number of nodular/cystic lesions on face 

iga: IGA score, e.g., 0=Clear; 1=Almost clear, 2=Mild, 3=Moderate, 4=Severe 

erythema: Skin reaction erythema score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely 
perceptible), 2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 

dryness: Skin reaction dryness score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely 
perceptible), 2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 

burning: Skin reaction burning score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely 
perceptible), 2=moderate (distinct presence), 3-severe (marked, intense) 

erosion: Skin reaction erosion score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely 
perceptible), 2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 

edema: Skin reaction edema score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely 
perceptible), 2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 

pain: Skin reaction pain score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely perceptible), 
2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 

itching: Skin reaction itching score, e.g. 0=absent, 1=mild (slight, barely 
perceptible), 2=moderate (distinct presence), 3=severe (marked, intense) 

CMrpt: Concomitant Medication reported during this visit, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

AErpt: Adverse Event reported during this visit, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

LBtest: Laboratory Testing performed during this visit, e.g., Y=Yes, N=No 

 

29. These recommendations are specific to this product and may not be appropriate for 
bioequivalence studies of any other product, including any other dosage form or strength 
of adapalene. 



