 

Active Ingredient: Albendazole 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Chewable Tablet; oral 

 

Recommended Studies: Two studies 

 

1. Type of study: Fasting 


Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in vivo 

Strength: 200 mg at the dose of 400 mg (200 mg x 2 tablets) 

Subjects: Healthy males and females (non-pregnant and non-lactating), general 
population 

Additional comments: Tablets should be chewed completely before swallowing. 

 Applicants may consider using a reference-scaled average bioequivalence approach for 
albendazole. For the method of statistical analysis using the reference-scaled average 
bioequivalence approach, refer to the Progesterone Capsule Guidance. 

 

2. Type of study: Fed 


Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in vivo 

Strength: 200 mg at the dose of 400 mg (200 mg x 2 tablets) 

Subjects: Healthy males and females (non-pregnant and non-lactating), general 
population 

Additional comments: See comments above. 

 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Albendazole and its active metabolite, 
albendazole sulfoxide, in plasma 

 

Submit the metabolite data as supportive evidence of comparable therapeutic outcome. For the 
metabolite, the following data should be submitted: individual and mean concentrations, 
individual and mean pharmacokinetic parameters, and geometric means and ratios of means for 
AUC and Cmax. 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Albendazole 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: Not Applicable. 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: The dissolution information for this drug 
product can be found on the FDA-Recommended Dissolution Methods Web site, available to the 
public at the following location: http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. 


Conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and 
reference products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the abbreviated new drug 
application (ANDA). 


