Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Alendronate Sodium; Cholecalciferol 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) current thinking 
on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does not operate to bind FDA or 
the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies the requirements of the applicable 
statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Alendronate Sodium; Cholecalciferol 
Form/Route: Tablets; Oral 
Recommended studies: 1 Study 
Type of study: Fasting 

Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: 70 mg/5600 IU 
Subjects: Healthy males and non-pregnant females, general population 
Additional Comments: (1) A highly selective assay capable of low ng/mL limit of quantitation should be 
utilized. (2) Applicants may consider using a reference-scaled average bioequivalence approach for alendronate. 
If using this approach, please provide evidence of high variability in the bioequivalence parameters of AUC 
and/or Cmax (i.e., within-subject variability = 30%). For details on the method for statistical analysis using the 
reference-scaled average bioequivalence approach, please refer to the Draft Guidance on Progesterone Oral 
Capsules at http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatory 
Information/Guidances/UCM209294.pdf. (3) To assist with achieving a stable plasma cholecalciferol baseline, 
subjects should receive a stable diet for a period preceding dosing and during plasma sample collection. 
Subjects should avoid all active vitamin D compounds and vitamin D-supplemented foods. In addition, subjects 
should avoid prolonged, direct sunlight for at least 10 days prior to- and during the study periods/washout. 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Alendronate and cholecalciferol in plasma 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Alendronate and cholecalciferol 

Special Considerations: Because cholecalciferol (Vitamin D3) is endogenously produced, post-dose plasma 
concentrations should be corrected for each subject per treatment period. Baseline plasma cholecalciferol 
concentrations should be determined from the average of at least four (4) samples collected between -24 and 0 
hours (inclusive) prior to dosing. 

For each treatment, test or reference, the mean of the endogenous plasma cholecalciferol concentrations from 
these four (or more) time points should be used for baseline adjustment. If baseline-adjusted concentrations are 
negative, concentrations should be set to zero (0.0). Statistical analysis should be performed on both baseline- 
adjusted and unadjusted pharmacokinetic parameters. BE should be established from the baseline- adjusted values 
and meet the standard 90% CI criteria for AUCt, AUC8, and Cmax pharmacokinetic criteria. 
Waiver request of in-vivo testing: 70 mg/2800 IU based (i) acceptable bioequivalence studies on the 70 
mg/5600 mg strength, (ii) proportional similarity of the formulations across all strengths, and (iii) acceptable in 
vitro dissolution testing of all strengths. 

Dissolution test method and sampling time: Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to 
the public at the OGD website at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the 
dissolution information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 
dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be determined upon 
review of the application 

Recommended April 2009; Revised Oct 2011 


