Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Alendronate Sodium 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies 
the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative 
approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active Ingredient: Alendronate Sodium 
Form/Route: Tablet/Oral 
Recommended Studies: 1 study 

Type of study: Fasting 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: 70 mg 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population 
Additional Comments: (1) A highly selective assay for alendronate capable of at least 
low ng/mL lower limit of quantitation should be utilized. (2) Applicants may consider 
using a reference-scaled average bioequivalence approach for alendronate. If using this 
approach, please provide evidence of high variability in the bioequivalence parameters 
of AUC and/or Cmax (i.e., within-subject variability = 30%). For details on the 
method for statistical analysis using the reference-scaled average bioequivalence 
approach, please refer to the Draft Guidance on Progesterone Oral Capsules at 

http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatory 
Information/Guidances/UCM209294.pdf. 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Alendronate in plasma 
. 
Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Alendronate 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: 5 mg, 10 mg, 35 mg, and 40 mg based on (i) an 
acceptable bioequivalence study on the 70 mg strength, (ii) proportional similarity of the 
formulations across all strengths, and (iii) acceptable in vitro dissolution testing of all 
strengths. 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website 
at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/index.cfm. Please find the 
dissolution information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative 
dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. 
Specifications will be determined upon review of the application. 

Recommended Jan 2008, Revised Oct 2011 


