Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Aliskiren Hemifumarate; Amlodipine Besylate 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies 
the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative 
approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Aliskiren Hemifumarate; Amlodipine Besylate 
Form/Route: Tablet; Oral 
Recommended studies: 2 studies 

1. Type of study: Fasting 
Design: Single-dose, partial or fully replicated crossover in vivo 
Strength: EQ 300mg base; EQ 10mg base 
Subjects: Normal healthy males and females, general population 
Additional comments: (1) Females should not be pregnant, and if applicable, should practice 
abstention or contraception during the study. (2) Applicants may consider using a reference-
scaled average bioequivalence approach for Aliskiren Hemifumarate. Provide evidence of 
high variability in the bioequivalence parameters, AUC and/or Cmax (i.e., within-subject 
variability = 30%) when using this approach. For general information on this approach, 
please refer to the Draft Guidance on Progesterone Capsules. 
2. Type of study: Fed 
Design: Single-dose, partial or fully replicated crossover in vivo 
Strength: EQ 300mg base; EQ 10mg base 
Subjects: Normal healthy males and females, general population 
Additional comments: Please see comment above. 


Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Aliskiren and amlodipine in plasma 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Aliskiren and amlodipine 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: EQ 300mg base; EQ5 mg base, EQ 150mg base; EQ 10mg base 
and EQ 150mg base; EQ 5mg base based on (i) acceptable bioequivalence studies on the 300 mg/10 
mg strength, (ii) acceptable in vitro dissolution testing of all strengths, and (iii) proportional 
similarity of the formulations across all strengths. 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is 
available to the public at the OGD website at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. 
Please find the dissolution information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative 
dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. 
Specifications will be determined upon review of the application. 

Recommended Jun 2012 


