 

Active ingredient: Alogliptin Benzoate; Pioglitazone Hydrochloride 

 

Form/Route: Tablet/Oral 

 

Recommended studies: 2 studies 

 

1. Type of study: Fasting 


Design: Single dose, two way crossover, in vivo 

Strength: 25 mg (base); 45 mg (base) 

Subjects: Healthy males and non-pregnant females, general population. 

Additional Comments: 

1. Females should practice abstention or contraception during the study. 

2. To avoid hypoglycemic episodes in healthy volunteers, the drug products should be 
administered with 240 mL of a 20% glucose solution in water, followed by 60 mL of the 
glucose solution administered every 15 minutes for up to 4 hours after dosing. 

 

 

2. Type of study: Fed 


Design: Single dose, two way crossover, in vivo 

Strength: 25 mg (base); 45 mg (base) 

Subjects: Healthy males and non-pregnant females, general population. 

Additional Comments: Please see above. 

 

 

Analytes to measure: Alogliptin and Pioglitazone and Pioglitazone metabolite M-IV in 
plasma* 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Alogliptin and Pioglitazone 

 

*Please submit the M-IV metabolite data as supportive evidence of comparable therapeutic 
outcome. For the M-IV metabolite, the following data should be submitted: Individual and mean 
concentrations, individual and mean pharmacokinetic parameters, and geometric means and 
ratios of means for AUC and Cmax. 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: Alogliptin 25 mg (base); Pioglitazone 30 mg (base), 
Alogliptin 25 mg (base); Pioglitazone 15 mg (base), Alogliptin 12.5 mg (base); Pioglitazone 45 
mg (base), Alogliptin 12.5 mg (base); Pioglitazone 30 mg (base), Alogliptin 12.5 mg (base); 
Pioglitazone 15 mg (base), strength tablet, based on (i) acceptable bioequivalence studies on the 


Alogliptin 25 mg (base); Pioglitazone 45 mg (base) strength, (ii) acceptable in vitro dissolution 
testing of all strengths, and (iii) proportional similarity of the formulations across all strengths. 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website 
at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the dissolution 
information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 
dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be 
determined upon review of the application. 

 


