Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Alvimopan 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies 
the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative 
approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Alvimopan 
Form/Route: Capsule; Oral 
Recommended studies: 2 studies 
1. Type of study: Fasting 

Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in vivo 
Strength: 12mg 
Subjects: Healthy males and non-pregnant females, general population 
Additional comments: Entereg® (alvimopan) Capsules was approved with a Risk Evaluation and 
Mitigation Strategy (REMS), which restricts its use to short-term (15 doses) use in hospitalized 
patients because of the risk of myocardial infarction observed with longer use. All pertinent 
elements of the REMS must be incorporated into the protocol and informed consent. 

2. Type of study: Fed 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in vivo 
Strength: 12mg 
Subjects: Healthy males and non-pregnant females, general population 
Additional comments: (1) Please see comment above. (2) The meal should be completed within 
30 minutes and the test and reference products should be administered 30 minutes after the start 
of the meal. 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Alvimopan and the metabolite ADL-08-0011 in 
plasma 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Alvimopan 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: Not Applicable 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is 
available to the public at the OGD website at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. 
Please find the dissolution information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative 
dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. 
Specifications will be determined upon review of the application. 

Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS): This drug product has an innovator developed 
REMS. The innovator has named the REMS ‘Entereg Access Support and Education’ (E.A.S.E.). Any 
ANDA citing the innovator drug product will also be required to have a REMS. Please refer to 73 FR 
16313: March 27, 2008 and Section 505-1 of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. 

Recommended Jun 2012 


