Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Amiloride Hydrochloride 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's 
(FDA's) current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any 
person and does not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach 
if the approach satisfies the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you 
want to discuss an alternative approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Amiloride Hydrochloride 
Form/Route: Tablet; Oral 
Recommended studies: 2 Studies 

1. Type of study: Fasting 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: EQ 5 mg Base 
Subjects: Healthy males, nonpregnant females and non-elderly, general 
population. 
Additional Comments: Subjects with impaired renal function, diabetes mellitus, 
should be excluded from the study. As amiloride treatment may cause 
hyperkalemia, serum potassium levels should be monitored carefully during the 
bioequivalence study. 
2. Type of study: Fed 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: EQ 5 mg Base 
Subjects: Healthy males, nonpregnant females and non-elderly, general 
population. 
Additional Comments: Please see above. 


Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Amiloride in plasma 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Amiloride 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: Not applicable 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD 
website at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the 
dissolution information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative 
dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference 
products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the application. 

Recommended Mar 2012 


