Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Amiodarone Hydrochloride 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies 
the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative 
approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Amiodarone Hydrochloride 

Form/Route: Tablet/Oral 

Recommended studies: 2 studies 

1. Type of study: Fasting 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: 200 mg 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population. 
Additional comments: 
2. Type of study: Fed 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: 200 mg 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population. 
Additional Comments: Please refer to the Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablet Draft Guidance for 
additional information regarding fed studies. 


Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Amiodarone in plasma 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Amiodarone 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: 100 mg, 300 mg, and 400 mg based on (i) acceptable bioequivalence 
studies on the 200 mg strength, (ii) acceptable in-vitro dissolution testing of all strengths, and (iii) 
proportional similarity of the formulations across all strengths. Please refer to the Mirtazapine Tablet Draft 
Guidance for additional information regarding waivers of in-vivo testing. 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website at 
http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the dissolution information for this 
product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all 
strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the application. 

Information Regarding Long Half-Life Drugs 

For an oral immediate release product with a long elimination half-life drug (>24 hrs), applicants can conduct 
a single-dose, crossover study, provided an adequate washout period is used. If the crossover study is 
problematic, BE applicants can use a BE study with a parallel design. For either a crossover or parallel study, 
sample collection time should be adequate to ensure completion of gastrointestinal transit of the drug product 
and absorption of the drug substance (which usually occurs within approximately 2 to 3 days). Cmax and a 
suitable truncated AUC can be used to characterize peak and total drug exposure, respectively. For drugs that 
demonstrate low intrasubject variability in distribution and clearance, an AUC truncated at 72 hour (AUC072hr) 
can be used in place of AUC0-t or AUC0-inf. For drugs demonstrating high intrasubject variability in 
distribution and/or clearance, AUC truncation should not be used. 

Recommended Dec 2010 


