Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Amlodipine Besylate; Telmisartan 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies 
the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative 
approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Amlodipine Besylate; Telmisartan 
Form/Route: Tablet/Oral 
Recommended studies: 2 studies 

1. Type of study: Fasting 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: EQ. 10 mg Base/80 mg 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population. 
Additional Comments: The subjects should remain in a comfortable recumbent position 
for up to 8 hours after dosing and under medical surveillance for up to 12 hours after 
dosing. Before they are allowed to ambulate, they should sit up with legs in a dependent 
position for one minute prior to standing up. While standing immobile, they should be 
closely observed for blood pressure changes and/or orthostatic symptoms, including 
nausea, dizziness, or faintness for at least three minutes. 
2. Type of study: Fed 
Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 
Strength: EQ. 10 mg Base/80 mg 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population. 
Additional Comments: Please see comments above. 


Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Amlodipine and Telmisartan in plasma 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Amlodipine and Telmisartan 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: EQ. 5 mg Base/40 mg, EQ. 10 mg Base/40 mg and EQ. 5 
mg Base/80 mg based on (i) acceptable bioequivalence studies on the EQ. 10 mg Base/80 mg, 

(ii) acceptable in-vitro dissolution testing of all strengths, and (iii) proportional similarity of the 
formulations across all strengths. 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 
Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website 
at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the dissolution 
information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 
dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be 
determined upon review of the application. 

Recommended Aug 2010 


