 

Active ingredient: Amlodipine Besylate; Benazepril Hydrochloride 

 

Form/Route: Capsules/Oral 

 

Recommended studies: 2 studies 

 

1. Type of study: Fasting 


Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in vivo 

Strength: EQ. 10 mg base/40 mg 

Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population. 

Additional Comments: Applicants may consider using a reference-scaled average 
bioequivalence approach for this drug product. If using this approach, please provide 
evidence of high variability in the bioequivalence parameters of AUC and/or Cmax (i.e., 
within-subject variability > 30%). For general information on this approach, please refer 
to the Bioequivalence Recommendations for Specific Products on Progesterone 
Capsules. 

In addition, applicants may also consider additional sample collections at early time 
points to better characterize the absorption phase of benazepril. 

 

 

2. Type of study: Fed 


Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in vivo 

Strength: EQ. 10 mg base/40 mg 

Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population. 

Additional Comments: Please see comment above. 

 

 

Analytes to measure: Amlodipine, Benazepril, and active metabolite, Benazeprilat, in plasma. 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Amlodipine and Benazepril 

 

Please submit the metabolite data as supportive evidence of comparable therapeutic outcome. 
For the metabolite, the following data should be submitted: individual and mean concentrations, 
individual and mean pharmacokinetic parameters, and geometric means and ratios of means for 
AUC and Cmax. 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: EQ. 2.5 mg base/10 mg, EQ. 5 mg base/10 mg, 


EQ. 5 mg base/20 mg, EQ. 5 mg base/40 mg and EQ. 10 mg base/20 mg based on (i) acceptable 
bioequivalence studies on the EQ. 10 mg base/40 mg strength, (ii) acceptable in vitro dissolution 
testing of all strengths, and (iii) proportional similarity of the formulations across all strengths. 
Please refer to the Mirtazapine Tablet Draft Guidance for additional information regarding 
waivers of in vivo testing. 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

 

Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website 
at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the dissolution 
information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 
dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be 
determined upon review of the application. 

 


