 

Active ingredient: Amlodipine Besylate, Hydrochlorothiazide, Olmesartan 
Medoxomil 

 

Form/Route: Tablet/Oral 

 

Recommended studies: 2 studies 

 

1. Type of study: Fasting 

Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 

Strength: 10 mg (base), 25 mg, 40 mg 

Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population. 

Additional Comments: Females should practice abstention or contraception during the 
study. 

 




 

2. Type of study: Fed 

Design: Single-dose, two-way crossover in-vivo 

Strength: 10 mg (base), 25 mg, 40 mg 

Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population. 

Additional Comments: Please see comment above. 

 

 




Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Amlodipine, Hydrochlorothiazide and 
Olmesartan in plasma 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Amlodipine, Hydrochlorothiazide and Olmesartan 

 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: 

Amlodipine Besylate, Hydrochlorothiazide, Olmesartan Medoxomil 10 mg (base), 12.5 mg, 40 
mg; 5 mg (base), 25 mg, 40 mg; 5 mg (base), 12.5 mg, 40 mg; 5 mg (base), 12.5 mg, 20 mg 
based on (i) acceptable bioequivalence studies on the Amlodipine Besylate, Hydrochlorothiazide, 
Olmesartan Medoxomil 10 mg (base), 25 mg, 40 mg strength tablet, (ii) acceptable in-vitro 
dissolution testing of all strengths, and (iii) proportional similarity of the formulations across all 
strengths. 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website 
at http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the dissolution 
information for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 


dosage units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be 
determined upon review of the application. 

 

Note: 

 

Due to safety concerns the subjects should remain in a comfortable recumbent position for up to 8 
hours after dosing and remain under medical surveillance for up to 12 hours after dosing. Before they 
are allowed to ambulate, they should sit up with legs in a dependent position for one minute prior to 
standing up. While standing immobile, they should be closely observed for blood pressure changes 
and/or orthostatic symptoms, including nausea, dizziness, or faintness for at least three minutes. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


