Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 

Draft Guidance on Amoxicillin; Clavulanate Potassium 

This draft guidance, once finalized, will represent the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) 
current thinking on this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does 
not operate to bind FDA or the public. You can use an alternative approach if the approach satisfies 
the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations. If you want to discuss an alternative 
approach, contact the Office of Generic Drugs. 

Active ingredient: Amoxicillin; Clavulanate Potassium 

Form/Route: Tablet/Oral 

Recommended study: 2 studies 

1. Type of study: Fasting 
Design: Single-dose, two-treatment, two-period crossover in-vivo 
Strength: 875 mg; 125 mg base 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population 
Additional comments: 
2. Type of study: Fed 
Design: Single-dose, two-treatment, two-period crossover in-vivo 
Strength: 875; 125 mg base 
Subjects: Healthy males and nonpregnant females, general population 
Additional comments: 


Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid in 
plasma 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: 250 mg/125 mg base and 500 mg/125 mg base, based on 

(i) acceptable bioequivalence studies on the 875 mg/125 mg base strength, (ii) acceptable in-vitro 
dissolution testing of all strengths, and (iii) proportional similarity of the formulations across all 
strengths. 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

Please note that a Dissolution Methods Database is available to the public at the OGD website 
http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Please find the dissolution information 
for this product at this website. Please conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage 
units each of all strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will be determined 
upon review of the application. 

Recommended Nov 2010 


