 

Active Ingredient: Amphotericin B 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Liposome injection; intravenous 

 

Recommended Studies: Two studies 

 

When the test and reference liposome products 

• have the same drug product composition and 
• have equivalent liposome characteristics, including liposome composition, liposome 
size distribution, number of lamellar, electrical surface potential or charge, lipid bilayer 
phase transition, and in vitro leakage rates. 


 

 

The following in vivo and in vitro studies are recommended to demonstrate bioequivalence: 

 

In Vivo Study: 

 

A. Type of study: In vivo steady-state 


Design: (1) Parallel group or (2) two-way crossover 

Strength: 50 mg/vial 

Dose: Appropriate dose that is recommended by physicians to fit the patients’ needs 
per the RLD labeling 

Subjects: Patients who need Amphotericin B treatment as part of their therapy per the 
RLD labeling. FDA recommends that the study not be conducted using healthy 
subjects. 

Additional Comments: Please see comments below. 

 

1. Submission of a Bio Investigational New Drug Application (Bio-IND) is required prior 
to conducting a bioequivalence (BE) study for a cytotoxic drug product such as 
Amphotericin B (see 21CFR § 320.31). 


 

2. Following patients should be excluded from the study: 


 

• Less than 18 years of age 
• Pregnant or lactating women 
• History of hypersensitivity reactions to any components of conventional or 
liposomal Amphotericin B formulations 
• Serum creatinine concentration greater than twice the upper limit of normal (ULN) 
AST or ALT value greater than 10 times the ULN 


 

3. Following safety monitoring measures are recommended for the in vivo BE study: 


 

• Pregnancy test for women 



• Laboratory evaluation of renal, hepatic and hematopoietic function 
• Serum electrolytes (particularly magnesium and potassium) at baseline and during 
the course of the study 


 

4. Each qualified patient should receive the same dose of Amphotericin B Liposomal 
injection treatment at fixed 24-hour intervals. Exclude patients from the study with 
dose adjustment during the BE study. For crossover studies, patients may receive 
either the generic formulation (Treatment A) or the reference formulation (Treatment 
B) for 5 days (Day 1-5), and then switch to the other treatment for 5 days (Day 6-10). 
No washout period is necessary between the two treatments. 


 

5. The patients shall receive their own established Amphotericin B dosing regimen during 
the study. After the study is completed, continue the patients on their Liposomal 
Amphotericin B Injection dosing regimens. 


 

6. Patient’s concomitant medications should remain exactly the same during the study. 


 

7. All study subjects can be given a standard non-high-fat diet every day during the study 
provided there is no interference with patients’ care. Alternatively, initiate the 
treatment two hours after a standard (non-high-fat) breakfast every day during the 
study. In addition, avoid concomitant therapy with intravenous fat emulsions, such as 
total parental nutrition (TPN), since that may change the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile 
of Amphotericin B Liposomal injection. 


 

8. Blood sampling: 


 

For each period, two or three trough concentrations are recommended to be measured 
before the full PK sampling day to ensure steady-state is reached. On the day of blood 
sample collection, a series of blood samples should be collected to assess the 
concentration-time curve. 

 

9. Statistical analysis of PK data: 


 

For statistical analysis of PK data, please refer to Bioequivalence Recommendations for 
Specific Products — Clozapine (final). 

 

10. Clinical report and adverse reactions: 

 

Report patient medical histories, physical examination laboratory reports, and all 
incidents of possible adverse reactions. 

 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Free Amphotericin B (liposome-
unbound) and liposome-encapsulated Amphotericin B in plasma 

 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Free Amphotericin B and liposome-encapsulated 
Amphotericin B 

 

Note: the pivotal BE study should be conducted using test product produced by the proposed 
commercial scale manufacturing process. 

 

 


In Vitro Study: 

 

B. Type of study: Liposome size distribution 


Design: In vitro bioequivalence study on at least three lots of both test and reference 
products 

 

Equivalence based on (95% CI): Population bioequivalence based on D50 and SPAN [i.e. 
(D90-D10)/D50] or alternatively on the harmonic intensity-weighted average particle 
diameter and polydispersity index derived from cumulant analysis of the size intensity 
distribution. 

 

Waiver request of in vivo testing: Not Applicable. 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: The dissolution information for this drug 
product can be found on the FDA-Recommended Dissolution Methods Web site, available to 
the public at the following location: http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. 
Conduct comparative dissolution testing on 12 dosage units each of all strengths of the test 
and reference products. Specifications will be determined upon review of the abbreviated new 
drug application (ANDA). 

 

Additional information: 

 

Same drug product composition 

 

Per 21 CFR § 314.94 (a) (9) (iii), as a parenteral drug product, a generic Amphotericin B 
liposome injection must be qualitatively (Q1) and quantitatively (Q2) the same as the RLD, 
except differences in buffers, preservatives and antioxidants provided that the applicant 
identifies and characterizes these differences and demonstrates that the differences do not 
impact the safety/efficacy profile of the drug product. Currently, FDA has no 
recommendations for the type of studies that would be needed to demonstrate that differences 
in buffers, preservatives, and antioxidants do not affect the safety/efficacy profile of the drug 
product. 

 

Lipid excipients are critical in the liposome formulation. ANDA sponsors should obtain lipids 
from the same category of synthesis route (natural or synthetic) as found in the RLD. 
Information concerning the chemistry, manufacturing, and control of the lipid components 
should be provided at the same level of detail expected for a drug substance as suggested in 
the liposome drug products draft guidance. ANDA sponsors should have specification on lipid 
excipients that are similar to those used to produce the RLD. Provide additional comparative 
characterization (beyond meeting specifications) of lipid excipients including the distribution 
of the molecular species. 

 

Equivalent liposome characteristics 

 

Additional in vitro characterization are recommended to demonstrate the sameness between 
the test and reference products in terms of liposome composition, liposome morphology and 
number of lamellar, lipid bilayer phase transitions, liposome size distribution, electrical 


surface potential or charge, and in vitro leakage rates. The in vitro liposome characterization 
tests should be conducted on at least three batches of the ANDA and RLD products (at least 
one ANDA batch should be produced by the commercial scale process and used in the in vivo 
BE study). 

 

For additional information regarding statistical analysis of in vitro data, please refer to 

Bioequivalence Recommendations for Specific Products — Budesonide Suspension (Draft). 

 


