 

Active Ingredient: Apixaban 

 

Dosage Form; Route: Tablet; oral 

 

Recommended Studies: Two studies 

 

1. Type of study: Fasting 
Design: Single-dose, 2-way, crossover in vivo 
Strength: 5 mg 
Subjects: Healthy males and non-pregnant females 


Additional comments: All subjects should be tested on prothrombin time (PT), activated 
partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), and creatinine clearance (CrCl). The PT and aPTT 
results should be within normal range, and the CrCl value should be more than 50 
mL/min for all subjects before dosing in order to prevent or avoid the possibility of 
bleeding. 

 

 

2. Type of study: Fed 


Design: Single-dose, 2-way, crossover in vivo 

Strength: 5 mg 

Subjects: Healthy males and non-pregnant females 

Additional comments: Same as comments above 

 

 

Analytes to measure (in appropriate biological fluid): Apixaban in plasma 

Bioequivalence based on (90% CI): Apixaban 

 

Waiver request of in-vivo testing: 2.5mg based on (i) acceptable bioequivalence studies on the 
5mg strength, (ii) acceptable in vitro dissolution testing of both strengths, and (iii) proportional 
similarity of the formulations between both strengths. 

 

Dissolution test method and sampling times: 

The dissolution information for this drug product can be found on the FDA-Recommended 
Dissolution Methods web site, available to the public at the following location: 


http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/dissolution/. Conduct comparative dissolution testing 
on 12 dosage units each of both strengths of the test and reference products. Specifications will 
be determined upon review of the abbreviated new drug application (ANDA). 

 

In Vitro Comparative Nasogastric Tube Studies: 

The approved labeling for the reference product states that the product may be crushed and 
suspended in 60 mL of water or 5% dextrose in water (D5W) and promptly delivered through a 
nasogastric (NG) tube. Conduct the following in vitro studies with 8 French NG tube to compare 
the performance of the test product to that of the reference product to support NG tube 
administration. 

NG tube preparation procedure: Prepare the NG tube studies using 12 units of the test and the 
reference products at the 5 mg strength for 0 and 15 minutes by the following procedure: 

a. Prepare the dispersion by crushing the tablet and suspending it in 60 mL of water. 
Prepare the catheter tip syringe, remove the syringe plunger and transfer the 
suspension into the syringe. Insert the syringe plunger and gently rotate the 
syringe. 




 

b. Attach the syringe to the NG tube, using the syringe plunger push the suspension 
through the syringe and the NG tube into a collection container. Flush the syringe 
with additional amount of water until no granules remain in the syringe. Record 
the total amount of water used. 




 

c. Repeat the testing described above with a fresh set of 12 units. However, after 
preparing the suspension in step ‘a’, wait for 15 min prior to injecting the contents 
into the NG tube. 




 

Repeat this test using 60 mL of D5W in place of water. 

 

1. Comparative recovery test: conduct the comparative recovery studies of suspension of 
apixaban to determine what percentage of the initial dose passes through a combination 
of oral syringe and NG tube. Follow the feeding tube preparation procedure outline 
above. Determine the percentage of apixaban recovered at the NG tube exit relative to the 
initial dose for both the test and the reference products, using a validated analytical 
method. The T/R recovery ratio and the 90% confidence interval of the T/R recovery 
ratio should be calculated. If high variability is observed, the applicant may increase the 
number of units used for this test. Visually examine the tube and the syringe for any 
aggregation, adherence, clogging, etc. 


 

2. Risk assessment of administration conditions: NG tubes may be made with different 
materials (e.g., PVC, silicone, and polyurethane) and excipients in the suspension may 
interact with tubing material differently. Therefore, the applicant should consider material 
of various NG tubes that may be used for product administration and justify that the 



conditions used in the equivalence testing conducted below are sufficient for risk 
evaluation. Justification of testing conditions may be made on the basis of recovery 
studies (testing procedure as above). Studies should be performed demonstrating the 
recovery of the suspension through NG tubes and tested to determine the worst case 
scenario conditions (including, but not necessarily limited to tubing material) which will 
be used for the equivalence testing above. 


 

3. Standard operating procedure submission: Submit standard operating procedures for the 
above in vitro testing. Include details about the type of water, the pH of water, flushing 
volume used in the studies, the tube and syringe used (e.g. material, brand, size, etc.), 
holding positions of the tube, crushing procedure, shaking method, analytical site and 
testing dates, etc. for each of the studies. Please submit individual data, mean values, 
standard deviations, and coefficient of variation (%CV) of each study in an excel file. 
Visually examine the tubing and the syringe for any aggregation, adherence, clogging, 
etc., and report all observations and supply supporting photographs. For recovery studies, 
video may be provided to document the testing process and associated observations. 
Provide the pre-study and within-study assay validation report. Conduct all the above 
testing on unexpired test and reference batches. Provide explanation if additional pressure 
is needed during the testing to ensure complete recovery. 


 


